##############################################################################
# Notes on the book "12" by Gregory M. Carpenter (and other WITS members)
##############################################################################

This document's filename: notes_12.txt

##############################################################################

pg. 3.
Respected authors: Gann, Bayer, and Jensen.

pg. 4.
Allan Blakstad: "There is a lot happening at Highs and Lows."

There is information on time cycles in the WITS group and in TTTA, but you won't find them in this (12) book.

It takes faith in yourself (i.e. faith in your abilities), and persistence, to succeed.

pg. 5.
Price is found via the use of time cycles; this is why you need the cycles before you forecast price.

You must know the cycles before you can use the (Gann) squares.

pg. 6.
Your real goal: Understand the cycles in Gann's book: TTTA.

You have to get those cycles; cycles lead you to success.

pg. 7.
This work will teach you how to identify the transiting planets that are affecting your market.  You will learn how to rectify any natal quickly and efficiently.  You will observe how the correct natal produced turns and how you can develop a system for profits on an intermediate level.  You will see in no uncertain terms, the cause of the business cycle and factors that enhance it.  You will learn the factors that are impacting you, creating success or failure depending on your location on the globe.

pg. 11.
Pyramid of the trading field:
  Numbers
  Squares
  Time Factors and Cycles
  Natals
  Aspects and Eclipses.


Gann's TTTA covers the top 5.
Bayer covers Squares, Time Factors, and Natals.
Jensen covers Aspects, Eclipses, Natals and Time Cycles in his writings.
R.T.A. covers aspects and natals.

The squares operate off of Time Cycles, and Number is "shorthand" for these cycles.  Therefore the key is to focus on Time Factors and Cycles.  Information for this is in TTTA by Gann and "Time Factors" by Bayer.  There are also many posts on WITS.

Time Cycles have the problem of not being exact.  This is where the natal comes in handy; it allows you pin the orb down to the exact day or two.  

pg. 12.
Previously they said: To solve orb, look at Jupiter and Saturn 45's.
While you can do it that way, there is a much better way and that is to have a "fixed point" and one planet.  That way you are working with one variable and not two. Active points in a natal count as a fixed point.  

For example:
If the actual point is Saturn transiting over 13 deg 52, but the market turns 13 deg 44, 13 deg 42, and 13 deg 46, thus the market is 'firing' early.  So we create a  'swath' (range) of when the turn will happen.  Saturn transverses these points in one day!

Fusing this principle with Time Cycles is the "Golden Key".

pg. 13
Every stock or commodity responds to ITS OWN aspects.  An aspect between Uranus and Jupiter may turn one market but not another.  So for any market you trade in, you should identify which aspects affect (turn) that market.  You simply go through the aspects one at a time to find which one's work.

List of 'required reading' books:
1) A to Z horoscope Maker Delineator (Llewellyn George)
2) Astro Cycles & Speculative Markets  (Luther Jensen)
3) The Tunnel Thru The Air (W. D. Gann)
4) Kabala of Numbers (Sepharial)
5) Power of Number (Numero)
6) Periodicity (Jos. Buchanan)
7) Key to Bible and Heaven (Ludwig Larson)

pg. 14
Gann used both Helio and Geo.

TTTA: 
Regarding the war in the air:  Look at the dates of battles in the book and compare that to what was occurring in the Dow Jones at that time. 

This book is all about cycles, many different types of cycles and understanding this will save you time.

The way to succeed is to master TTTA.

pg. 15
Regarding software: Solar Fire if you can afford it.
Avoid paying big money for software.  All you need is a cheap ephemeris.

Chiron rules Taurus.
Transpluto rules Virgo.

Always use True Node (and not Mean Node).  

pg. 16.
Use aspect sizes of 15 degree increments.  
(i.e. Increments of 1/24th of a circle).

pg. 19
Books by Johndro to study after learning Astrology and Astronomy:
1) Earth in the Heavens
2) Fixed Stars

It is in these two books that astrology and astronomy come together. 

There is a critical error in Johndro's book "Earth in the Heavens".  He later recanted one aspect of the book.  The Midheaven of the locality charts are FIXED; they are not precessional.  "The actual zodiac used in interpretation is right in step with the equinoctial precession and always has been.  Therefore each country and city has the exact same rulership as it always has."  

From page 51 of "Earth in the Heavens":
"To the dates of eclipses, planetary stationaries, great conjunctions and oppositions, new moons and events."

From page 53 of "The Stars":
Eclipse configurations are the principle indicators of the great events of the year, through the Ingress, Stationary positions and great conjunctions and oppositions of the planets should receive attention.  These two examples are pointing the way on how to combine the two fields (astrology and astronomy).

pg. 20

From page 50 of "The Stars":
Listed is a few of the 50-odd stars influencing New York and the stock exchange fluctuations.

An aspect of longitude occurs at a specific Time and in a specific Season (of the year).  This is described in the BLH lecture.

pg. 21.

Use the 15-degree increments between the separation of two planets (synodic to synodic), and test these with the yearly season as a filter parameter.

pg. 22

Orb: "There is no orb."
Reference to Jensen's ACSM page 38, and to Jayne about declination.

Use a certain orb, then narrow it down via declination.  

Those that have not solved orb yet, should use about 10 minutes of longitudinal arc on either side of exact.

Include planets Transpluto and Chiron in our research.

pg. 23.

Aspects are unique to each market.

pg. 24

ACSM, page 82: 
Keep in mind specific angular relationships of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus are the key to stock in the bullish or bearish directions.  Each commodity has its own combination of one or two of the foregoing, PLUS either Mercury, Venus or Mars.

After the inner planets (are tested), test declination (transiting to transiting) between planets.  Use parallels and contra-parallels.

In NYSE stock General Motors, parallels and contra-parallels of transiting Geocentric Mercury and Sun produces turns at about 83%, with a turn allowance of 1 day.


pg. 27

The business cycle is correlated with the sunspot cycle and seasons of a year.  It is connected with weather. 

Gann has on his reading list:
"Sunspots and Weather" by W.T. Foster.  It shows how to forecast sunspots.

pg. 29
You have to combine sunspot cycle with planetary configurations.  

In "Law of Values" by Sepharial, on pages 16 and 17, states that countries are tied to certain signs of the zodiac.  An example is the United States and Gemini.  Thus transiting Saturn through Gemini will depress the value of securities in the US. Always be cognizant of planets in the signs, in relation to the country whose securities you are trading in or holding.

pg. 30
Testing the Golden Key to this field.  It is what will get you ahead.

Test for only a single element at a time.  Many individuals put too many factors into a test, which invalidates that test.

Pages 30-36 has instructions on how to do testing.

pg. 37-58
Information about locality-based astrology.  
How to calculate geographic Asc and MC.


pg. 59
Solar arcs: A symbolic method where all radix points are progressed by the yearly addition of the motion of the Sun, i.e. the motion of the Sun during one day = movement of all radix points after 1 year (a day for a year principle).  Radical relations are maintained.

pg. 60

Figure 1 shows directed solar arc after 15 years. 

Also from Sepharial's Arcana:
Prime Significator (PS): Planet that rules the sign in which the sun is found (in radix, solar arc, transit?)
Secondary Significator (SS): Planet that rules the decanate of the Prime Significator.

pg. 61

Lunar arcs: General monthly influences are obtained from "Minor directions" (i.e. lunar arc), which is based on the motion of the moon.  According to Robson. 

Declination arcs: A three dimensional technique developed by Jayne and Heseltine.  Declination is measured from the celestial equator, i.e. It is an Earth based system. 

Transit-solar arc: This is a system where aspects between actual transiting points and arc-ed points are considered.  

Sepharial says to use the mean motion of the Sun (59'08" per year).  This is called the mean rate of progression.  Valentine Naibod originally advocated this system in 16th century.  There is also the apparent rate of progression.  

To work with solar and lunar arcs, you need:
  - Extensive database (greater than 100 years of market data)
  - Correct natal.
  - Proper software / ephemeris.

Conclusions of this seminar paper:
  - Important to understand the differences between personal and
    financial astrology.
  - Due to contradictions in literature, extensive testing is required.
  - Important to choose right progression rate for the sun and for the moon.
  - Using correct natal and enough data is the basis to start working with 
      solar and lunar arcs 

pg. 62

Work plan for researching solar and lunar arcs is given.  

Hypothesis list for testing is given.

pg. 63

Methods to reduce noise:
Instead of using a fixed orb, you can study orb and use it for evaluating the system according to the following simple model:

  - Turn date
  - Astro event
  - Astro date
  - Calculated orb

If you follow this setup, you may later sort for what you want to study, for example you can study all the events with an orb < x days and you can study each type of event separately.  

Inactivity or activity can then be based upon orb; you can calculate mean orb for a specific event.  You will start to see patterns you couldn't see before; "Noise can be reduced.  

pg. 64

Shows how to test for declination arcs.  

pg. 65

Conclusions:
  - Test everything.  Eliminating a factor is also a positive result.
  - If you do not reduce the number of testing parameters, you may not
    see the correct solution.
  - Working with calculated orbs allows you to see new patterns.

Books referenced:
  - Jayne, Charles, 1995, "The Best of Charles Jayne"
  - Jensen, "Astro Cycles and Speculative Markets"
  - Bonnie Lee Hill video
  - Meridian, Bill, 2001 "Johndro's Astrology" The Mountain Astrologer, 
    June/July 2001
  - Robson, Vivian "The Radix System"
  - Sepharial, "The Arcana or Stock and Share Key".

pg. 66-75

Natals charts of the following are discussed:

  - Bank of England chart
  - Jensen's United States chart
  - Rectified United States chart [by authors of "12", with reasons]
  - Jensen's Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) chart 
  - Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) chart
  - New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) chart
  - American Express (AXP) chart
  - 3M (MMM) chart
  - The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company (GT) chart

pg. 76-79

Process used to rectify the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) is shown.  The final natal arrived at is given as well.

pg. 81-85

Process used to rectify EBAY is shown.  The final natal arrived at is given as well.

pg. 84

The process of "scanning" is described on this page.  "Scanning" is the process used to find the exact natal time of a stock after one has the sensitive zodiac points on the 15-degree axis.  The process is done by slowly incrementing the natal time-of-day by an amount to move the ascendant a certain amount of longitude distance so that it hits the next increment of a sensitive point on the 15-degree axis.  Then it is checked to see if the MC or Vertex line up also with the other sensitive zodiac points on the 15-degree axis.

When two points are locked in, there is a very high probability that the true natal has been found.  

pg. 86

Shortcut technique is given for converting a floating point number of degrees to degrees and minutes.  Take the floating point portion, divide by 10 and multiply by 6.  Example:  For 0.75, divide by 10 to get 0.075, then multiply by 6 to get 0.45, which stands for 45 minutes.  

Using decimal format for the planetary longitude location makes it easier to do excel formulas and math on the numbers.  For example, to convert from longitude degrees (out of 360) to the 15 degree axis is just a mod 15 operation.  

pg. 86-89

On these pages, the rectification of the natal chart of NYSE is covered.  The final natal arrived at is given as well.  The solar arc of major events on the exchange, such as the 1987 crash day is used to verify.  Uranus in 1987, via solar arc, opposed the ascendant of the rectified chart.

pg. 89-90

Rectification of the natal chart for Amazon (AMZN) is covered.  The final natal arrived at is given as well.  

pg. 90-91

Secret tips for finding the founding date quickly:

If one is searching for the founding data for the Solaris Company:

1) Go to a search engine and type one of the following:

  Solaris + founded on
  Solaris + founded on + date

Usually you will have to go through a few pages.  

2) Sometimes you can get lucky and find the founding date on the company's website.  Just go to the site and see if they have any of the following:

  Corporate information
  History
  Timeline

3) Sometimes the year that it was founded is the only thing that the company lists and we need both the location and the date.  Say for example, they list 1967 as "the founding", then use that and go back to the search engine and type:

  Solaris + date + 1967

In some cases we have not found a thing as far as a date and location so we move onto the next stock or commodity.  

4) If the above techniques have failed and you are determined to get the information.  There is another technique but it takes more tie.  Go to the company's website and get their phone number.  Call them and ask them on what date they were founded.  Buy a couple of books.  Go to the library and research it, etc.

5) The website: www.answers.com has a TON of founding dates.  Go there and type in the company name and then click on answers.  Then scroll down for the information.  

pg. 91

Putting the rectification technique into a defined process:
1) Go to a stock and take 12 of its' largest turns.  This book has done that for stocks that have been around for 50 years or more.  It is best to avoid turns like the market crash of 1987 and other long-term market dates, and instead focus in on unique turns.  In summary: Try to use turns that are unique to the stock or commodity when doing rectification.  

pg. 91-92

Rectification of the natal chart of 3M (MMM) is on these pages.

pg. 93

Rectification of the natal chart of American Express (AXP) is on this page.

Rectification of the natal chart of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company (GT) is on this page.

pg. 94

The start of the rectification process (turns are given) for Proctor and Gamble (PG) is on this page.  The final natal was not given for this stock.  

pg. 95

The start of the rectification process for The Walt Disney Company (DIS).  The final natal was not given for this stock.  Enough information was given to be able to find two important points on the 15-degree axis', and thus to be able to rectify the stock.  

pg. 96

The start of the rectification process for General Electric (GE).  The final natal was not given for this stock.  Enough information was given to be able to find two important points on the 15-degree axis', and thus to be able to rectify the stock.  

Of the stocks given in "12":
 About 25% are vibrating to their incorporation date.
 About 70% are vibrating to their founding date.
 About  5% are vibrating to mergers and other special activity.

pg. 97-99.
Rectification of the natal chart of McDonald’s (MCD) is on these pages.

pg. 99-100
Rectification of the natal chart of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (WMT) is on these pages.

pg. 100-108
Rectification of the natal chart of Microsoft Corporation (MSFT) is on these pages.  

Two different techniques were used to rectify the MSFT natal.  One was the long method (using 65 turns), using the traditional way.  The other was the short method, using '12' turns and expanding the number of turns if required.  

The long method:
The long method analyzed the planet positions (Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, Pluto, Chiron and Transpluto), putting each planet location into buckets.  The buckets are for locating the important points on the 15-degree axis, and thus all the buckets together span the range of [0, 15) degrees.  The bucket sizes are 10 minutes of arc each.  After all planet locations on each of the turns are put into the buckets, the highest sum of three consecutive buckets are located.  This gives us the approximate important 15-degree axis points.  

The short method:
Gather 12 sharp, clear turns, as large as possible.  Write down the planetary positions on the dates of those turns for Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, Pluto, Chiron and Transpluto.  From the 12 turns, you should be able to account for at least 50% of the 12 turns using a minimum of 4 hits to an axis.  If this is not the case either do 1 of 2 things.  Either go back and grab more turns from the same data, or abandon this stock or commodity and move on to another, which will be more fruitful.  From those axises test the 'founding data' as well as the incorporation date or other focus by scanning the times to coincide with the axis.  

Important concepts and tips scattered among the natal rectification pages:

pg. 94
"When we do not feel confident about our [15-degree axis] points, as is with the case with Proctor and Gamble (PG) above, we scrap that project and go back through using smaller turns."

pg. 95
Look at the turns with the longitude position listing of the 7 planets:
  - Jupiter
  - Saturn
  - Uranus
  - Neptune
  - Pluto
  - TransPluto
  - Chiron

pg. 95
With the process of looking at 12 turns, we would want to have two 15-degree axis points with at least 5 hits a piece.  

pg. 96-67
Sometimes discerning exactly which bar is the top can be a pain.  Each top/bottom should be studied to try to understand exactly where the turn occurred.  There are some tricks we use such as if you are looking for a top, look closely at the highest close.  Sometimes a stock will have the exact high or low 2 days in a row.  If this is the case, we use the second day.  It is best in the beginning to deal only with very sharp turns; later, once experience takes hold, deal with turns that are a little trickier.  Never use a roving top or bottom. 

Regarding rectification: In America since 2000 through 2005, the stock market has been sideways and choppy.  While this activity has put most traders to sleep, it makes finding highs and lows easier as the turns are more pronounced due to the lack of trend.  Therefore it makes stocks with less history easier than in a trending market.  

pg. 99
"You will find that some stocks/commodities are easier to rectify than others.  Likewise you will find that some stocks/commodities are more profitable than others."

pg. 108
"Be cognizant that there were some stocks Gann could not make money in and some that he could, the same rules apply to you."

pg. 109-110

J.H. Nelson found that:

  - Disruptions in trans-Atlantic radio signals occur when the outer planets (Jupiter outwards) are 90, 180, and 0 degrees apart Heliocentrically.

  - The triggering mechanism would be a fast planet (Mercury, Venus, and Mars) coming into aspect with the other 2 planets.  

  - Jupiter and Saturn had a more pronounced affect than the other planets.

  - When Jupiter and Saturn were in an angular relation of 60 or 120 degrees, radio signals were uncharacteristically clear.  


It has been said that a stock's price is influenced in the following manner:

  - 60% Trend of entire market
  - 20% Trend of the industry of which the stock is a member.
  - 20% Individual trend.

Of the 60% that trends with the entire market, the movements are broken down into the following:

  - Major Trend (lasting years)
  - Intermediate Trend (lasting months)
  - Minor Trend (lasting days and weeks)

From Luther Jensen in American Astrology Magazine, August 1948 to January 1950:
Factors influencing Jensen's results:
August 1948: "An extremely bearish cyclical convergence (cycle) will not mark a decline unless the TECHNICAL POSITION is vulnerable" ... and vice versa.

June 1949, regarding accuracy of his forecasts: 
"The research error factor on day to day trend prospects can be high... the TECHNICAL POSITION 4 months ahead is obviously an unknown quantity."

This means he is aware his predictions may be off, and we should still listen to what he has to say.  

pg. 116

Jensen's point #1:
In all three examples, Jensen uses the "Significator" of the aspect between the outer planets.  The Significator is the fastest moving planet of the 2 in aspect. 

Examples:
For an aspect between Saturn and Uranus, Saturn is the Significator.
For an aspect between Saturn and Jupiter, Jupiter is the Significator.

An aspect between outer planets can be triggered by faster moving planets/points, i.e. the Sun, Mercury, Venus and Mars. 

pg. 120-121.

Jensen's point #2 and #3:
Saturn in bad aspect to the Moon's True North Node will cause bearish psychology.

The sign that the planets are in influences psychology thus:
  - Look at the sign that Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus are in.  Sextile signs give a bullish psychology as due trine.  Signs that are square or opposed would give a bearish psychology.  

February 1949, Jensen writes:
"Cyclical indicators are severely potent one time and appear to operate very mildly at others.  The degree of their operation depends on the state of public psychology and the technical position of the markets involved."

September 1948: "... portend investment support in heavy industries aircrafts and steels."

These are keywords.  From page 41 of Jensen's ACSM, we find the keywords attached to the following planets:

  Steel    ==> Mars
  Aircraft ==> Uranus
  Oil      ==> Neptune

Jensen's point #4:
To get indications, (positive or negative) for a particular industry, find that industries' ruling planet, such as Neptune for oil, etc. listed on page 41 of his book.  

Then watch aspects to that planet:
  - Trines/sextiles will be beneficial to that industry.
  - Squares/oppositions will be harmful to that industry.
  - Conjunctions for good or bad are based on planets in conjunction.  
    It is best to check back for past effects.

pg. 125
Jensen's point #5:
When both a good and bad aspect are occurring at the same time, it depends on the technical position of the market as to which aspect will be more dominating.  

For investor sentiment, it is helpful to look at Investor's Business Daily's "economic optimism index" which one can find at:
http://www.pollingreport.com/consumer.htm

pg. 130
Jensen's point #6:
Watch the retrograde period of Mercury.  

pg. 132
Jensen's point #7:
The effects of bad aspects by the outer planets can be retriggered by inner planets/Sun.  Thus there would be continuing negative effect on each retrigger.

pg. 133
Jensen's point #8:
There are two factors:
  - There are aspects between the outer planets for bullish or bearish trends.
  - There is the perceived optimism/pessimism 
    (see Investor's Business Daily's "economic optimism index" which was 
    mentioned previously).

Therefore fast moves will occur when the above two are in sync.  

Bullish aspect and bullish optimism = bull move.
Bearish aspect and bearish pessimism = bear move.
Bullish aspect and bearish pessimism, or vice versa = mixed market.

pg. 135
Jensen's point #9:
The 3 factors are:
  1) Cyclical Indicators (aspects between outer planets)
  2) Public psychology; confidence, optimism and pessimism.
  3) Technical position.

pg. 136
Jensen's point #10:
Eclipses have a definite impact on financial markets.  Some eclipses are more important than others.  

pg. 139
Jensen's point #11:
Ingresses affect the minor trend.  


pg. 139-141

It is known that Jensen has scattered elements throughout all of his writings.  The first step is to acquire these writings.  The next step is to cross reference for similar material in order to build a case (for a rule).

Jensen, January 1950:
"We know that a cyclical wave of about 4.5 years marks the general trend from highs to lows and from lows to highs.  In recent years this is apparent from 1932 to 1937, the decline from 1937 to 1942 and the rise from 1942 to 1946..."

ACSM, page 78:
"There are the 41 to 43 month cycles, the 4.5 year, 9 year, 10 year, 18 year, or 3 times 18 for the 54 year affair... the real core is apparent in the cycle of the Node.  But to get back to our May 1942 Washington figure..."

ACSM, page 126:
"Often there is a search for repeating cycles by statistics and then there is the constant reference to the economic cycle.  The former is often heard of 9 year cycle, 11 year cycle, 18 year cycle, or the 54 year cycle.  Recently the low of 1976 in sun-spot activity, and the wide range effects related to weather, harvests and humans, has relegated its average 11 year cycle to prospects of an 80-90 year cycle... the latter or what is labeled the economic cycle avoids being trapped by a time factor."

Extracting from these excerpts, we have the following dates which are related to each other:

7/8/1932 (L)
3/10/1937 (H)
4/27/1942 (L)
5/29/1946 (H)

We suspect a cycle of 54, divided by 3 = 18, divided by 2 = 9, divided by 2 = 4.5.

From Sepharial's "Cosmic Symbolism", page 98:
"Another very interesting cosmically cycle is that of the eclipse period.  The initial value of this is 18 years 11 days 7 hours 42 minutes and 35 seconds, being the mean interval between an eclipse and its reoccurrence.  In three cycles, the eclipse has moved through one sign of the zodiac, and in 12 x 3 or 36 cycles, it will have moved through the entire zodiac and come to its original occurrence.   Then 18 x 3 x 12 = 648 years, to which we add 1 for the precesssional increment and obtain 649 years as the eclipse cycle, after which the phenomena occurs in the same part of the zodiac."

Jensen, May 1949:
"During the past 15 months, the commodity price index has reversed to a downward trend and confirmed that reversal.  Comparable conditions have occurred in 1815, 1865 and in 1920.  After each of these zones comparable to the 19471948 commodity price reversal because they follow years of excessive war demand and inflation, the major trends held downward for 13 to 15 years: half a Saturn cycle.  The decline from 1815 made a low in 1830, 1865 peak to low in 1879 and the 1920 peak a low in 1933. "

What he states is during war, commodity prices get pushed up and inflated.  Then after the war peak, there is a downward cycle of 13 to 15 years, which is half of a Saturn cycle of 29 years. 

This is not the only place in his writings where he mentions 15 years.  Let's take a look at material that is private and extremely rare:

Jensen writes:
"In the tracing of planetary interaction an adequate key is apparent.  Incidentally, there is sufficient evidence to show that Sun-spot activity is caused directly by the planetary interaction and therefore is an indicator secondary to planetary positions.  For general purposes, the changing relationships within a 360-degree spectrum, of Jupiter, Saturn and Uranus reflect cyclical timing indicators of economic ebb and flow.  The half circle or 180-degree, reflects interruptions in the time factors appearing as interruptions in the primary or major trend of the business index.  Because of differing speeds around the 360-degree spectrum by Saturn, Uranus, and Jupiter, they are in conjunct at varying intervals -- Jupiter and Saturn every twenty years, etc.

When the number of lunations (new Moons are added to the varying peaks of 180 degree, 90 degree, 60 degree, 45 degree and 30 degree angular relationships, between the constantly varying positions of these major planets in relation to the earth, timing elements become relatively precise.  For 180 lunations is just short of fifteen years, and 90 lunations is about seven and a half years.

For example, the beginning of another major downward cycle is assumed in stock market prices from the fall of 1929.  Being downward the 90, 45, 22.5, etc. lesser cycles apply -- upward major cycles are marked by 60, 30, 15, etc. time units.  In tracing the trend since, we find that 90 months elapsed from the 1929 top to the 1937 high.  Major lows to major highs hold in the same adequate average: The summer of 1929 to early 1933 and from early 1933 to 1937, etc."

pg. 143

Jensen's point #12:
In a triangle technical pattern, watch for the breakout at [or near] the apex.

pg. 144

For the last 100+ years, the major recessions have been tied to Jupiter-Saturn conjunctions and oppositions.  Years ending in 0 or 1 have felt the full force of this.  Get some long-term data and go back through history to prove this to yourself.  

pg. 144-146

Quick-and-dirty "12" method is used to find the active transiting-to-transiting important 15-degree axis points.  The method is used on an example using dates from Gann's October Egg courses.  

pg. 147-158

Systemization:
After having the important points on the 15-degree axis, one would want to re-analyze the turn dates we originally compiled and check the planet longitude data on an individual planetary level.  The first step in this is to determine which planets were more prominent when they hit the axis.  

Example used was on Walmart.  The 2 axis were:
4 deg 12
11 deg 54

Starting with the Jupiter column, modulus 15 operation was done.  Then the values were observed to see which fell on the axis (using roughly 10 minutes of orb either side of exact).

The data shows there was 1 hit to the 11 deg 54 axis and 3 hits to the 4 deg 12 axis.  Let's start with the 4 deg 12 axis.

Our next step is to test a batch to see what type of results are obtained, over a period of time, when Jupiter hits the 4 deg 12 axis.  [List of dates for this criteria are listed from 1990 to 2005].

Next we need to check what occurred on these dates in our Walmart stock price.  [List of dates follows with a column indicating if there was a High, Low, or nn (not noticeable)].

Summary: Out of 41 possible, 22 produced significant turns or 53.6%.

Jupiter hit the 11 deg 54 axis on the following dates. [List of dates for this criteria are listed from 1990 to 2005].

Again, we need to check what occurred on these dates in our Walmart stock price.  [List of dates follows with a column indicating if there was a High, Low, or nn (not noticeable)].

Summary: Out of 56 possible, 24 produced turns, or a rate of 24.8%

We need to go through the other outer planets in the same manner.  In doing so, we get the following: [table with results are shown, see page 154].

Now most individuals that have made it this far would probably give up, but we want to purpose that we continue.  Let's have a look at our worst one.  That would be 16 hits by Pluto to the 4 deg 12 axis, of which only 4 produced notable turns.  The 4 dates that did produce turns need to be pulled aside and studied.  We want to see what other hits to the same axis were occurring at these times.  

1/12/1979:  Mercury and Venus were at 4 deg 12, 
            Neptune and Pluto were at 19 deg 12.
1/30/1979:  Mercury was at 4 deg 12, 
            Pluto was at 19 deg 12.
12/26/1996: Sun was at 4 deg 12,
            Pluto was at 4 deg 12
10/25/1997: Venus and Mars were at 19 deg 12,
            Pluto was at 4 deg 12, 
            Node was at 19 deg 01

Using this idea of simultaneous hits to the same axis, we can begin to investigate different combinations.  

The following chart shows the combination of all the outer planets from Jan 2001 to Dec 2003, hits to 11 deg 54 axis.  Notice that there is an 'alignment' in 2 places. [pricebar chart is shown on page 155].

On top of that, we added in Sun and Venus hits to the 11 deg 54 axis, these were chosen at random.  [pricebar chart is shown on page 156].

Now from that we used Venus as the trigger and looked at hits by the outer others (Sun and outers) within 1 day.  This produced the following.  [pricebar chart is shown on page 157].  Out of the dates, only 3 were not tradable turns.  [list of dates tradable and not tradable is given on page 158.]

pg. 159-220.
Articles and Market Forecasts by R.T.A.

pg. 160
RTA: Saturn and Uranus semi-sextile: A bullish market usually coincides with this aspect.  

RTA: "On the new Moon February 19th, Mercury is also conjunct the Sun.  This is a signal for a topping off of a move on large volume if the move has previously been up."

RTA: Sun making square to Uranus is bearish.

pg. 164
RTA, Mar 1939: "During the first week of March, the Sun is conjunction Jupiter and both of them are sextile Uranus.  This is a good sign of rising prices, but a finish of a move.  Remember that if the market is going up and there is a good aspect like this one, the market will make a top."

pg. 176
RTA, Aug 1939: "Jupiter starts a semisquare to Uranus the first of June, and hardly moves out of orb until the first week of September.  This acts in reverse order to the cycle of Uranus and Neptune [trine], making a great contest between the two forces.  This may cause another temporary down trend or hesitation, to be followed later by an up trend."

pg. 179
RTA, Sep 1939: "Uranus is semi-square Jupiter and square Mercury on the first of September, starting the month off with negative cycles and a down trend.  on the second, Mars is sesquiquadrate (135 deg) to the Sun and Sesqui-quadrate Venus on the third, which are further coordinated with the Moon square Mars.  These aspects are negative and occasion a declining market."

RTA, Sep 1939: "On September 5th, the day starts with the Sun in conjunction with Venus, which may bring a temporary rally.  On the 6th, the aspects turn negative again, with the Moon square Venus and the Sun, and sesquiquadrate Saturn, which is the beginning of two serious Saturn aspects on the 8th, when again Saturn is 135 deg from both Venus and the Sun."

pg. 184

Stock market cycles:
Mars square Uranus: Negative cycle.
Sun opposition Uranus: Gives market strain.  (Negative cycle).
Sun and Mercury square Mars: Brings a disturbing element to the market.

War and inflation/deflation periods:
RTA: 
"The years previous to the Civil War had much the same condition as we are experiencing today [Nov. 1939].  There was a serious decline making a bottom in 1857, then a gradual rise, with intermediate declines, which brought the pendulum to a final standstill in 1861, the first year of the Civil War.  When war broke out in April in 1861, there was first a sharp decline, then rapidly rising prices for three years.  In 1864, when the top was made, prices were three times what they were at the bottom in 1861.

During the World War, 1914-1916 inclusive, prices of securities doubled.  They declined sharply to the end of 1917, after the United States went into the war, and went up again in 1919, higher than they were in 1916.

Without exception, prices of securities first have a serious decline, and then a very rapid rise when war comes."

rluu: I should go back and study inflationary cycles of the U.S., to find out their astrological cause.

pg. 185
RTA: The five fears (or pitfalls):
1) Fear of missed opportunities.
2) Overconfidence.
3) Position size too large, causing fear of loss of capital.
4) Talking to too many people about trades or positions can hinder your ability to do the right thing at the right time, because of fear of the loss of reputation [of being correct].
5) General nervousness.  This is the natural unsteady temperament of a person.

pg. 187.
RTA, Dec 1939: "Watch for an upset condition in the international exchange around December 18th, 1939, when the Sun is square Neptune."

RTA, Dec 1939: "On the 22nd, the Sun is square Jupiter, and on the 28th Mars is square Neptune.  With these adverse cycles, it is quite evident that the last two weeks of the month indicate a down trend for most groups."

RTA, Dec 1939: "From December 4th through to the 13th, Mercury is trine Jupiter.  This is not a very powerful cycle, but it may mark sharp rallies in the communication and rubber stocks.  Watch these days for large volume after a rise for a chance to take profits."

pg. 190
RTA, Jan 1940: "The year 1940 starts out with strenuous cycles operating.  Both Jupiter and Mars cross into Aries in conjunction with each other, and on the 7th are squared by Mercury.  This configuration usually brings activity in the market, but is likely to cause people to do the wrong thing.  

If the market is driven down sharply on the 6th and 8th, one might find stocks that are good buys, because on the 9th the Sun makes a trine aspect to Uranus.  This is an urge to buy the market and shove prices up.  This is followed in a few days by the Sun trine Neptune, on the 16th, which is also helpful.  

The rest of the month has mixed cycles, but are more positive than otherwise, especially around the 25th, when the Sun sextiles Jupiter."

pg. 191
Charts of averages of stocks of various industries are listed on this page.

rluu: I need to go through and investigate each industry individually, and determine the cycles that are specific to each industry.

pg. 193
RTA: Chart of a company's lifecycle is shown on this page.  

The stages are:
  - Birth
  - Youth: First rise of stock prices due to prospective business.
  - Adolescence: Company meets difficulties, or there is business depression.  The stock will decline, followed by a decline in earnings.  This is the testing period, when a company will consolidate its position, probably live upon reserves and get ready for the future.  This is the period when four out of five companies go out of business (stock goes to zero).
  - Maturity: Companies that survive adolescence make progress during the next prosperity cycle.  The profit zone is the one during the period of maturity.  This period varies greatly between companies.  It may last from a few years to a few decades.  The stock may fluctuate up and down many times during the current business cycles.  
  - Old age: Decline of old age, and eventual death.

The big profit zone is the one during the period of maturity (after the adolescence stage).  It is very important to know what age a corporation is in before one buys its securities.  In the maturity stage, the greatest profit possibilities are found with the highest degree of safety.  

Average life of all corporations is 7 years.
Average life of listed corporations is over 22 years.

rluu: What are the average ages of corporations nowadays?

pg. 197
On this page, RTA says to keep charts up so that the major, intermediate and minor trends can be determined:
1) The yearly trend (major trend).
2) The monthly trend (intermediate trend).
3) The weekly trend (minor trend).

That way you can see if the trends are conflicting on different time frames.

RTA on training required: "The writer recognizes the training required to follow the trend properly and overcome the psychological and cyclical influences successfully.  Until you have studied sufficiently, the following advice is in order.  Before you are well trained and have overcome fear, buy 1/3 of your quota at a time.  Don't gamble in the stock market, because the commissions are too high.  Learn how first unless you are a millionaire.  keep calm, because worry doesn't help you make money.  Don't expect too much, because that makes you overbuy."

pg. 198
RTA: "During the first 10 days of March 1940, there are three fairly constructive cycles:
  - Sun sextile Uranus
  - Sun semi-sextile Jupiter
  - Mars semi-sextile Jupiter

This should give a rising trend or a mixed trend, that is, some groups will fail to carry through on the up side."

RTA: "After the 10th of March 1940, there are good reasons to be cautious from a long term standpoint. When the Sun, around the middle of the month is square to Neptune, 'The ides of March will get you if you don't watch out.'"

pg. 199
RTA: "The cycles for the month of April are most unusually complex.  There is one combination that seldom occurs.  The Sun and Venus form a minor negative cycle of 45 deg known as a semi-square.  This lasts from about the middle of March through the whole month of April and into the first few days of May.  For the most of this period and especially the 10th and 13th, the Sun is conjunction Jupiter and semi-square to Mars, which in turn is conjunction Venus and semi-square the Sun.  

This combination of cycles seems to be the dominant factor for a large portion of the month and is very difficult to interpret satisfactorily.  The first interpretation is that the market will be very mixed; some securities might go up with the influence of Jupiter, while others will go down with the influence of Mars.  During the last 10 days of April, the Sun is conjunction Saturn.  This cycle nearly always indicates a change in trend.  If the market happens to be going down, as it was in April, 1939, this aspect will mark the bottom as it did on April 8, 1939.  Stocks that are going up will have their trends stopped with this cycle."

pg. 199-200
RTA: "Our major object is to be right on the yearly trend.  We change the weekly and monthly trends as often as necessary, because it is out of these two trends that the yearly trend is made."

RTA: "The forecasts given are not limited alone to security markets, but are even more useful and effective in the forecasting of trends of business activity, production and real estate."

Trend-Caster Cycle Graph (pg. 199):
The long curve represents the yearly trend.
The intermediate curve represents the monthly trend.
The shortest curve represents the weekly trend.
rluu: This is basically a chart of [planetary] cycle summation.  

pg. 203-205
RTA gives chart with his yearly trendcast for the years 1940-1944, inclusive.  The chart has 4 important cycles on it.  They are:

1) Real Estate Cycle.  This cycle is 18 years long.  Generally speaking, it is 11 years up, and 7 years down.  The years shown are from 1922 to 1926, inclusive.  This period was the 'Coolidge Prosperity."

2) World savior cycle.  The years shown are from 1879 to 1883, inclusive.  This was the 'Gold Resumption Prosperity."  This is the nearest typical period of Uranus trine Neptune that I have been able to find to reproduce.  

3) Business activity cycle (cycle number 3 on the chart).  The chart shows activity for the years 1895 to 1899 inclusive.  The first part of period was the "Silver Campaign Depression" and the last part of the period was the "Merger Prosperity."  This cycle repeats when Uranus and Saturn are in conjunction.

4) The American Cycle.  The chart shows activity from the period 1861 to 1865 inclusive.  The period was called first the "Secession Depression" and second "War Prosperity."  This cycle occurs about every 80 to 85 years.  This is the period of the time it takes Uranus to go around the Sun.  

Every 84 years (in America):
1523 - The Spanish planted their first colony in America.
1607 - The first English settlement was made in Jamestown.
1691 - The upheaval in the colonies came, called by Wilson, "The Revolution."
1775 - The beginning of the American Revolution.
1859 - The beginning of the Civil War period.
1943 - Current period [of the article written by RTA]

Neptune cycle:
It takes 165 years for Neptune to go around the Sun.  Look at periods where Neptune is 1/4th of this cycle.  The length of these periods are approximately:
  - About 41 years
  - About 82.5 years
  - About 123.5 years
  - About 165 years.

Starting at 1777           = Middle of Revolutionary War
+ 1/4th of a Neptune cycle = War of 1812.
+ 1/4th of a Neptune cycle = Civil War
+ 1/4th of a Neptune cycle = Spanish American War

pg. 205
RTA: Some write they like my market comments but don't believe in Astrology.  That's good -- "Neither believe nor disbelieve, but weigh and consider."

A successful client writes: 
"When I buy a $1,000 worth of stock, I invest $2,000 -- one of cash and one of knowledge."

RTA: "Did you ever let a 'speck' of error blind you to a 'mountain' of fact?  I have.  Critics of astrology do that when they allow fake astrologers to blind them to a 'mountain' of science."

pg. 206
Animals in the market place:

  - Bull: Symbolizes those individuals who are always looking for the market to go up.  They are buyers as long as they have any money.

  - Bear: Symbolizes those individuals who are always looking for the market to go down.  They are the ones who claim, "You never go broke taking a profit."

  - Pig: Symbolizes the fellow who tries to get the last point in the market.  He will complain if he is unable to buy at the bottom and also if he sells out and his stock goes higher.  He will worry more over the profits he did not get than he will appreciate the profits he did get.  Some of these even go so far as to figure that they lost the difference between the price at which their stock was sold and the final top price in the whole move.  

  - Hare: Symbolizes the trader who will wait and watch the market go up, afraid to buy until it reaches the top, then 'jumps' in with all his money.  After he has discovered that he 'jumped' too late, instead of selling and taking a small loss, he watches his stock go down until it reaches the bottom and is ready to go up again, then he 'jumps' out of the market and takes the biggest loss possible.

pg. 208-209
RTA, Jun 1940:
"The market trend in June is overshadowed by two major cycles.  The one cycle, which is bullish up to and including June with diminishing strength is the World Savior, the large trine between Uranus and Neptune.  The other cycle which starts to operate in June is bearish and just begins to take hold during this month, but gradually becomes most effective during the month of August.  This is the conjunction and parallel between Saturn and Jupiter."

RTA: The conjunction between Saturn and Jupiter occurs every twenty years and has a dominant effect upon economic conditions as well as political movements.  

Regarding the political standpoint, the United States passes through a 20-year cycle, of which:

  - 12 years of which are predominantly conservative.
  -  8 years of which are predominantly liberal.

pg. 209
RTA: Market cycles:
Sun square Neptune, almost without exception, causes a decline in the stock market.  

RTA:
"Jupiter and Saturn are currently parallel to each other but not yet in conjunction.  When they reach conjunction, I should anticipate a serious decline in the stock market.  I have checked the influences of Saturn aspecting Jupiter for the last 100 years.  The conjunctions, squares, and oppositions almost invariably cause declines.  There was one notable exception, and that was during March and April, 1881, when they were in conjunction in Taurus, which is exactly the same position they have this year.  There was practically no decline then because Uranus and Neptune were trining each other, which is exactly the condition this year.  
To be safe, it seems entirely reasonable to sell at least a portion of one's holdings on any sharp rise during June and July.  Because of these contrary forces, some securities are likely to continue going up, while others will go down very seriously.  This difference can be ascertained in the final analysis only by a study of the individual issue.  We have made such a study on a large list, giving current buying and selling prices.  "

pg. 210-212
RTA, July 1940:
"During the first week of the month, the Sun makes a sextile to Jupiter and Saturn.  This includes the new moon of July 5th.  The most important period of this month is running through the 15th to the 20th, when the Sun makes a sextile to both Neptune and Uranus.  This coordinates or brings together more actively the large cycle of Uranus trine Neptune.  This combination has a far reaching influence.  The stocks that have had an extensive rise may reach a top at this time.  This is especially true if these stocks have large volumes."

"From the 22nd to the 25th of the month, Mars makes square aspects to both Jupiter and Saturn, at a time when they are approach an exact conjunction.  I consider this unfavorable, therefore it is likely to mark a decline in the market into August.  This is further accentuated by the Sun, making a square to both Jupiter and Saturn during the first part of August.  Before the month of August is over, the Sun and Mars both square Uranus.  This chain of aspects creates a cycle that will cause a lot of people to lose their money in the markets if they are not very careful."

RTA, on Leadership:
"One of the most desirable things in the indicating of trend is leadership.  It would be a distinct advantage to find one outstanding company which would lead the rest of the securities through the business cycle trends.  It would be also a distinct advantage to find one city in the United States that responded more quickly to business conditions than other cities.  Then the business man could watch the trend of this city or this company and have advance notice of trends that would finally come in the rest of the country or other companies.  This would become the barometer of trends."

At the time of writing [1940], the Automobile Industry and Airline Industry has become the leader, and General Motors, and Chrysler were the leading companies.  Detroit is the leading city to watch [in 1940].  Previously, for many years, Railroad stocks and U.S. Steel were considered the market leaders.  

rluu: Thus, find out what industry is leading the stock market, and also which particular stocks.  Also find out which city or state is leading the United States in trends (either related to these industries, or in general).

rluu: Is there a [planet] cycle that controls when a new industry will come into focus and when old ones mature or leave focus?  Think about the industries that have come and gone in the U.S. and what might be causing new ones to rise and old ones to fall.  Around the years 2008-2011, airlines and car manufacturers have been struggling and going out of business.  The city of Detroit is in a massive depression, so obviously there is great affliction to an industry that used to be the leader in the United States.  

pg. 213-214
RTA, Aug 1940: "The decline coincided with the transit of Mercury into Taurus, May 7th, and Jupiter into Taurus, May 16th, both square Pluto in the first degrees of Leo.  

pg. 216
RTA, Aug 1940: "August promises to be a historical month.  The planet Mars forms a whole series of violent aspects, starting around the 20th of July and going right through to the end of August.  He makes a square aspect to Jupiter, Saturn and Uranus, a parallel aspect to Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and the Sun.  He is also conjunction the Sun the last two weeks in August.  To make things doubly hot, the Sun starts in during the second week of August and makes all the above aspects which Mars makes.  The Sun squares Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus, and parallels Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Mars.

During a large part of this year, Jupiter and Saturn are conjunction and parallel.  These two planets got to working surprisingly early during the second week of May when the parallel Mercury aspect pulled them together.  This was from what appeared to be a wide orb between them.  This aspect is a powerful force in either direction, depending upon the motive and the will of the individual."

pg. 219
RTA: A double top usually marks the finish of a move.

RTA: It is necessary to decide upon some form of policy regarding which trend we are trying to follow.  Whether it is the major trend (yearly), intermediate trend (monthly), or minor trend (weekly or daily).

pg. 220
RTA: "The market either makes a top or a bottom on a cycle depending upon the mechanical trend of the market itself.  If it was declining, it will make a bottom at the time of an important aspect, and start to reverse.  If it was rising, it will make a top at the time of an important aspect, and start to reverse."

pg. 221-235
These pages cover the overview of R.T.A. articles by the authors of "12".

pg. 221
RTA, Feb 1939:
"Sunspots as well as the urge to manufacture products, are both effects of planetary influence, either directly or indirectly.  This is the secret of the whole subject.  Another fact to be remembered by the technical students, is that the sunspots in the Sun's central zone (Earth's zone) are the effective ones.  This will account for the seeming discrepancy between the reported appearance of spots and the actual responses in quotations."

"Another point to remember is that it takes time to bring about economic changes.  (The sun starts north before Christmas, but there is little demand for straw hats until about Easter.)  The change comes gradually."

pg. 228-229
RTA, Feb 1939:
"On the new Moon, February, 1939, Mercury is also [in] conjunction with the Sun.  This is a signal for a topping off of a move on large volume IF THE TREND has previously been up."

There are two points here:
1) He has taken the new Moon's and tested them for aspects, like Mercury conjunct the new Moon point.
2) Most importantly, he also separated them according to the trends.  i.e. whether going up or down.

In the February 1939 article, he recommends 3 stocks that were not income paying.  Between February and June, the Dow lost 7%, and his stocks gained greatly.  How did he do it?  For these stocks, he gives the incorporation dates:

Kelsey-Hayes Wheel: July 31, 1930
Greyhound Corp: September 20, 1936
Paramount Pictures: July 16, 1916

For Kelsey-Hayes he states: "It is especially favored because the automobile industry and 2 good seasons and cyclical trends are in its favor.  Sun trine Uranus and Mercury 60 Jupiter."

Greyhound Corp he states:  "Venus is conjunct Sun and Mercury trine Jupiter.

Paramount Pictures he states: "One grand cycle is favoring this corporation."

Likewise he also lists 2 income producing stocks:
McIntyre Porcupine Mines Limited (Incorporated: March 16, 1911): "This stock has 2 major aspects of the Sun (Gold) operating now." [where Now == Feb 1939]

Minneapolis-Moline Power Implement Company (Incorporated: March 30, 1929): "With Mars sextile Jupiter and Mercury conjunct Sun by progression, this should be tops."

pg. 221
RTA, Mar 1939:
"During the first week of March, the Sun is in conjunction with Jupiter and both are sextile Uranus.  This is a good sign of rising prices, but a finish to a move.  Remember that when the market is going up, and there is a good aspect like this one, the market will make a top.  That is the time to sell.  If the market is going down and there is a good aspect, the market will make a bottom, that is the time to buy."

pg. 229
RTA, March 1939:
"... Jupiter, Saturn and Neptune are all parallel, making exact orbs the last 2 weeks of the month.  They don't lack anything to touch them off either because the Sun, Moon and Mercury are also parallel these 3 planets."

Rule: In a parallel aspect that your market responds to, the parallel aspect between the two planets must be triggered by a faster moving planet.  

RTA, Apr 1939:
"Those who follow market cycles must learn to buy on bad cycles and sell on good ones.  This is a very difficult thing to do.  It is perfectly normal and natural for people to buy on good cycles and sell on bad ones, and, because most people are normal, naturally they buy at the top on good cycles and sell at the bottom on bad cycles."

pg. 229-230
RTA, May 1939:
"For 100 years (in the U.S.) without deviating as much as 1 year, the values of the real estate have fluctuated in a definite cycle of up 11 years and down 7 years, making a complete cycle of 18 years."

This is the "11-7" real estate cycle.  

1843 to 1860
1861 to 1878
1879 to 1896
1897 to 1915
1915 to 1933
1933 to 1950
1951 to 1969 [updated]
1969 to 1987 [updated]
1987 to 2005 [updated]
2005 to 2023 [updated]

"Study is based on the number of foreclosures per thousand of homes owned."
"High point (most foreclosures) comes the 11th year from the bottom."
"The real cause is a combination of cycles discovered by this author [RTA]."

rluu: Is there any relation of this 18 year cycle to the eclipse cycle as mentioned by Sepharial in 'Cosmic Symbolism', page 98?  Sepharial gives the eclipse period as 18 years, 11 days, 7 hours, 42 minutes and 35 seconds.

pg. 230-231
RTA, May 1939:
"Profits should be protected at all times and be ready to sell (or buy) on any day the total volume of the NYSE is 3,000,000 or more in one day.  This is a RULE-- a KEY -- a FORMULA."

Today that value is a much higher, but the principle holds the same.  In a trending market, abnormally high volume is a key to a change in trend (CIT).  

RTA: "When the Sun joins with Uranus and trines Neptune, it brings into operation the great trine of Uranus and Neptune. [...] This great aspect will create a cycle of good that will last until 1943. [...] the Neptune and Uranus trine gives us hope for optimism."

pg. 231
RTA, Aug 1939:
"The Sun is trine Jupiter July 31, 1939, so the day to buy would be July 24th, especially if there is a decline about that time when the Sun makes a square aspect to Saturn."

Throughout his writings, RTA references the aspects made by the Sun often for stocks.  Looking at the charts for this case, the cycle inverted on him.

pg. 232
RTA, Jul 1939:
"Uranus trine Neptune makes its first complete expression from July 12th to 15th, 1939, when both the Sun and Moon make supporting aspects to them.  This grand cycle will operate until 1943 - not continuously, but will exert a powerful influence for good when supported by other planets."

[pricebar chart showing the price boost upwards due to the trigger planets.]

pg. 222-223
RTA, Sep 1939:
"If there is a sharp dip in the market on the 11th or 12th, informed traders can take advantage of it for a buy.  On the 13th, Venus is Trine Uranus and the Sun Parallel Neptune.  This should be constructive because on this day the Moon is also trine Uranus and Venus in conjunction with Neptune forecasting a definite change of trend upward, carrying through for a few days."

We did not get the dip on the 11th and 12th.  The keyword here is "if".  We can see from this his logic.  He has a 'good aspect', which if the market is going down will turn the price action up for a few days.  He means that if the price action is going up when the good aspects happen we will NOT get the forecasted movement.  [Instead, the prices moved down after the aspect because prices were trending up at the time the aspects came].

Taking a look at this we have (according to RTA):
1) Venus trine Uranus
2) Venus in conjunction with Neptune
3) Moon acting as trigger.  Note how he states this: "should be constructive because on this day the moon..."

pg. 233-234
RTA, October 1939:
RTA shows the triangle (wedge) technical analysis pattern.  Whichever way you break out of the triangle, once the triangle is penetrated, a very fast move will be on.  He was correct.

pg. 224
RTA, Nov 1939:
"From the 11th-13th, the Sun is in opposition to Uranus, giving another market strain... there is a very good cycle which should cause a rise in security prices, this is the Sun trine Jupiter running through the 22nd... on the 27th and 28th the Sun and Mercury are square Mars, which may bring a disturbing element in the market for a few days."

[Results: Low around the 11th to 13th.  High around 22nd.  Low around 27th to 28th.]

pg. 225
RTA, Dec 1939:
"From December 4th through the 13th, Mercury is trine Jupiter.  This is not a very powerful cycle, but it may mark sharp rallies in the communication and rubber stocks.  Watch these days for large volume after a rise for a chance to take profits."

pg. 235
RTA, February 1940:
RTA states that all stocks move through the same states; the only difference is the "time" spent in a certain phase.  He then states that stocks should be bought right after the "Adolescence stage".  [rluu: This is basically buying at the maturity stage, which is basically like buying what is known today as "growth" stocks.]

pg. 225
RTA, Mar 1940:
"During the first 10 days of March, there are three fairly constructive cycles.  Sun sextile Uranus, Mars semi-sextile Jupiter and the Sun semi-sextile Jupiter.  This should give a rising trend or a mixed trend."

RTA, Apr 1940:
"During the last 10 days of April, the Sun is conjunct Saturn.  This cycle almost always indicates a change of trend.  If the market is going down as it was in April 1939, this aspect will mark the bottom as it did April 8, 1939.  Stocks that are going up will have their trends stopped by this cycle."

[chart showing April 8, 1939 bottom]
[chart of the rise being checked in April 1940]

pg. 227
RTA, May 1940:
"... Uranus trine Neptune close from the middle to the end of the month, with the Sun conjunct Uranus and trine Neptune about the middle of the month.  The Uranus trine Neptune operated in July 1938, September 1939 and repeats again in May 1940.  This combination with the Sun is the dominant influence during the whole month."

One of his main points here is that if you have a large aspect such as a Uranus/Neptune aspect, it will be operative in the market at EACH passing.  

RTA, Aug 1940:
"During the large part of this year, Jupiter and Saturn are conjunct and parallel.  These two planets got to working surprisingly early during the first 2 weeks of May 1940, when the Parallel Mercury aspect pulled them together."

[Results: Pricebar chart shows the turn occurred May 8, 1940]

On May 8, 1940, the declination of the planets involved were:
Mercury: +10 deg 35'
Jupiter: +9 deg 48'
Saturn: +11 deg 28

Thus transiting Mercury was on the midpoint.

pg. 236
About Gann calculating price:
Reference to the 'May Coffee Santos D' coffee letter.

"using a scale of 1 point to one degree"
This is the solar scale.

"Using a scale of 30 points to 1 degree"
This is the Saturn scale.

"Using 50 points per month."
To figure this out:
50 x 12 months = 600 points per year.
Setting 1 point = 1 degree, we have 600 degrees per year.  This is roughly what heliocentric Venus travels in 1 year.  

You have to work through this letter in this manner.  

Formula for the Cycle of Eight (COE) is:
Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune and Pluto added together and divided by 8.

Formula for the Mean Of Five (MOF) is:
Jupiter, Saturn Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto, added together, and divided by 5.

It is difficult to predict price without thoroughly understanding the underlying cycles.  The price information Gann wrote in the letter is correct; it just doesn't work without the correct cycles.  These cycles can be found in TTTA.  The second element directly relates to price and is very important.  This can be found in chapter 30 of TTTA.  Don't work too hard on this until you have the cycles working.  

pg. 241-242
This page has a quote from a beginning trader that failed to use stops and traded aggressively with little capital.  He also used a system that clearly did not work.  

We want to make our system mechanical in order to take the emotions out of it.  The way to do this is to have well defined parameters, and then STICK TO THOSE PARAMETERS.

Example given:
[chart given with turns generated with Venus as trigger and either outer planet or Sun.]

Starting out simple, set the parameters of the following system:

  - Entry is to be at close on day of Venus hit to 11 deg 54 axis.
  - If day of hit is a weekend, then the next market day close is entry point.
  - Trade is contra-trend (i.e. a short position would be taken if prices were rising into the trade, and vice versa).
  - A one (1) point stop above the position entry price is used.  
  - Exit is close 5 days later.

[table of profitable results is given.]

It is noted that some form of leverage could be harnessed.

In this type of trading, always make sure you know EXACTLY where you are going to exit the trade before you ever take the trade.

pg. 243
How to get ahead in this field:
Test, test, test.  Unfortunately the road to success is filled with failed tests.  These failed tests allow you to eliminate what does not work.  Inching you towards what does work.  This work ("12") was made possible by authors that did this very thing. Frustrating at times, rewarding at others.

pg. 244
Conclusion:
The 'trick' here is that most of us are market traders, but we must also be researchers.  This is a very hard juggling act for most.  

We do feel strongly that one needs to run experiments to test out theories and ideas.  The bulk of people will fail to do this.  This is because independent thinking is shunned in our society that preaches conformity.  These factors work against many.

When you make your own discoveries, they will put you on top of the world.  It is an incredible feeling that will get you very high.  It is an incredible confidence booster and the ultimate in vindication.  When you succeed, really succeed, you will find that numbers are behind everything and you will understand the wisdom Pythagoras had when he stated, "all is number."  So not only will you acquire the equivalent of dollars, you will acquire something far more important: wisdom.  No longer will you think like the billions of sheep, but you will understand.  

All freely traded markets are built on natural laws.  Understanding these laws lead to profits and success in this field.  All market moves are knowable in advance once the natural laws are known.  This was how Gann acquired his fortune.

##############################################################################
