##############################################################################
Notes on the book "Money, and The Law of Attraction" by Jerry and Esther Hicks
##############################################################################

Part 1: Pivoting and the Book of Positive Aspects.

pg. 6

When you give the credit or the blame to another [person] for your success or lack of it, you are powerless to make any change.  


Emotional Guidance System

pg. 7-8

You are the creator of your experience, and you do it through your thought, not your action.  The Law of Attraction is the basis of all creation here.  

pg. 9

The basis of everything is vibration and the Law of Attraction responds to those vibrations and, in essence, organizes them, bringing things of like vibrations together while holding those not of like vibrations apart. 

pg. 10

When you remember that you get the essence of what you think about -- and then you notice what you are getting -- you have the keys for Deliberate Creation.  

pg. 11

Your emotions, which really are the most powerful and important of your six physical vibrational interpreters, give you constant feedback about the harmonics of your current thoughts (vibrations) as they compare with the harmonics of your core vibrational state.  

The non-physical world is vibration.
The physical world that you know is vibration.
There is nothing that exists outside of this vibrational nature.
There is nothing that is not managed by the Law of Attraction.
Your understanding of vibration will help you to consciously bridge both worlds.

pg. 12

Your "not thriving" is only because you are offering a vibration that is different from the vibration of thriving.  You cannot feel poor (and vibrate poor) and thrive.  Abundance cannot find you unless you offer a vibration of abundance.  

If you are standing in the absence of something you want, you must find a way to feel the essence of it -- even before it comes -- or it cannot come.  

pg. 12-13

You must find a way of feeling the excitement or satisfaction of your currently unrealized dreams before those dreams can become your reality.  Find a way to deliberately imagine a scenario for the purpose of offering a vibration and for the purpose of the Law of Attraction matching your vibration with a real-life manifestation.  

pg. 14

In every moment, about every subject, you can focus positively or negatively, for in every particle of the Universe -- in every moment in time and beyond -- there is that which is wanted and the lack of what is wanted pulsing there for you to choose between.

pg. 14-15

Every subject is really two subjects:

  Abundance / Poverty (absence of abundance)
  Health / Illness (absence of health)
  Happiness / Sadness (abscence of happiness)
  Clarity / Confusion (absence of clarity)
  Energetic / Tired (absence of energy)
  Knowledge / Doubt (absence of knowledge)
  Interested / Bored (absence of interest)
  I can do that / I can't do that
  I want to buy that / I can't afford that
  I want to feel good / I don't feel good
  I want more money / I don't have enough money
  I want more money / I don't know how to get more money
  I want more money / That person is getting more money than his/her share
  I want to be slender / I am fat
  I want a new car / My car is old
  I want a lover / I don't have a lover

pg. 15

The exercises in the book are given to help orient yourself toward what is wanted, not to explain what already is.  You have to begin telling a different story if you want the Law of Attraction to bring you different things.  

When you catch yourself in the midddle of a statement that is contrary to what you want, stop and say, "Well, I clearly know what it is that I don't want.  What is it that I do want?"  Then deliberately and emphatically make your statement of desire.  This process is called "Pivoting".

pg. 16

When your vibration shifts, your point of attraction shifts, and, by the powerful Law of Attraction, your manifestation evidence or indicator must shift also.  You cannot talk consistently of the things you do want to experience in your life without the Universe delivering the essence of them to you.  

The "Process of Pivoting" is a conscious recognition that every subject is really two subjects, and then a deliberate speaking or thinking about the desired aspect of the subject.  

The way you are FEELING is the true indication of the creative direction of your thought-vibration.  The Law of Attraction is not responding to your words but to the vibration that is emanating from you.  

pg. 18

All people, circumstances, events, and situations are attracted to you by the power of the thoughts that you are thinking.  Once you understand that you are literally thinking or vibrating things into being, you may discover a new resolve within you to more deliberately direct your own thoughts. 

pg. 19

By choosing better-feeling thoughts, and by speaking more of what you do want and less of what you do not want, you will gently tune yourself to the vibrational frequency of your broader, wiser Inner Being.  

pg. 20

The better you feel, the more in alignment you are with your Source -- with who-you-really-are.

pg. 21

You can deliberately choose good-feeling thoughts.  

Whenever you experience a negative emotion (fear, doubt, frustration, loneliess, etc.), that feeling of negative emotion was the result of your thinking a thought that did not vibrate at a frequency that was in harmony with your Inner Being.  Through all of your life experiences (physical and non-physical), your Inner Being, or the Total you, has evolved to a place of knowing.  And so, whenever you are consciously focused upon a thought that does not harmonize with that which your Inner Being has come to know, the resultant feeling within you will be one of negative emotion. 

pg. 23

Process of Pivoting is: Deliberately looking for a more positive way -- a better-feeling way -- to approach whatever you are giving your attention to.  

Rather than saying, "I never have enough money," say instead, "I'm looking forward to having more money."

pg. 24

Anytime that you are feeling negative emotion, you are in a very good position to identify what it is that you are, in that moment, wanting, because never are you clearer about what you do want than when you are experiencing something that you do not want.  And then simply turn your attention to what you do want.  That is the Process of Pivoting.  

Whenever you tell a story of "how it is now", you are also telling the story of the future experience that you are creating right now.  You are basically perpetuating more of whatever story you are telling.  

pg. 26

Things that are coming into your experience are coming in response to your vibration.  Your vibration is offered because of the thoughts you are thinking, and you can tell by the way you feel what kinds of thoughts you are thinking.  Find good-feeling thoughts and good-feeling manifestations must follow. 

pg. 27

You live in a Universe that is based on "inclusion."  In other words, there is no such thing as "exclusion" in this "inclusion-based" universe.  

See your environment as a buffet of many choices, and make more deliberate choices about what you think about.  

It is only by being aware of the way you are FEELING while offering your words that you can be sure that you are, in fact, offering a vibration about what you do want, rather than what you do not want.  

pg. 28

Often we say we want something but we are still focused on the lack of it.  What helps is to answer the question of WHY you want it.  Once you ask WHY, your vibration vibration shifts or pivots in the direction of your desire.  You should think of not only WHAT you want, but also WHY you want it.  

Whenever you consider HOW it will happen, or WHEN, or WHO will bring it to you, your vibration usually then shifts back toward the problem.  

pg. 31

If you can begin to orient your thoughts by steadily looking for things that cause you to feel good, you will begin to develop patterns of thoughts, or beliefs, that will help you create magnificent, good-feeling lives.  

Whatever thought you are focused upon (past memory, present, or future), that thought is active within you right now, and it is attracting other thoughts and ideas that are similar.  Not only do your thoughts attract other thoughts that are of a similar nature, but the longer you focus, the stronger the thoughts become and the more attraction power they amass.  

pg. 32

Upon some subjects, because you have been pulling on the negative rope longer, it is very easy for you to get off on a negative tangent.  In other words, it just takes a little negtive utterance from someone, a memory of something, or some suggestion that takes you into a negative tailspin right away.  

pg. 33

When the desire to feel good is effectivey active within you, a consistent inspiration toward good-feeling thoughts will be present, and you will find it easier and easier to direct your thoughts in productive directions.  Your thoughts contain enormous creative, attractive power that you harness effectively only by consistently offering good-feeling thoughts.  When your thoughts constantly move back and forth between wanted and unwanted, pros and cons, pluses and minuses -- you lose the benefit of the momentum of your pure, positive thought.  


Creating a "Book of Positive Aspects":
Make a list of positive aspects about something (things that you like about it that make you feel good).  

Utilize this "Book of Positive Aspects" daily.  

pg. 35

Whenever you are defending or justifying or rationalizing or blaming anything or anyone, you remain in a place of negative attraction.  You cannot be focused upon negative aspects and positive aspects at the same time.  

The realization that something is not as you want it to be is an important first step, but once you have identified that, the faster you are able to turn your attention in the direction of a solution, the better, because a continuing exploration of the problem will prevent you from finding the solution.  The problem is a different vibrational frequency than the solution.  

pg. 36

If you attempt to make a big jump from a truly negative, unwanted topic immediately to a positive, delightful topic of something very much wanted, you will not be able to make the jump -- for there is too much vibrational disparity between the two thoughts.  A determination to gently, generally, and steadily lean more and more in the direction of wanted things is really the best way to approach your personal vibrational improvement.  

pg. 37

Focusing on the positive aspects is most powerful and effective when you first awaken in the morning, and right before you go to sleep.  


Sleep time is realignment-of-energies time.  


When you wake in the morning, look for positive aspects immediately:

  - How wonderful this bed feels.
  - How comforting the fabric feels.  
  - How good my body feels.  
  - How comfortable this pillow is.  
  - How refreshing the air is that I'm breathing.
  - How good it is to be alive!

pg. 39

Process to do when going to sleep:

1) Recall some of the most pleasant things that happened during the day.  

2) When you find those pleasant things, ponder it:

     - The thing I liked about that was ...
     - My favorite part of that was ...

3) Once you are feeling the positive effect of your thoughts, focus on your dominant intention right now: Getting a good night's sleep and awakening refreshed in the morning.  Say to yourself: 

     I'm going to sleep now; and while I am sleeping, because my
     thoughts will be inactive, attraction will stop and my physical
     body will be completely refreshed at every level.

5) Turn your attention to the immediate things around you, like the comfort of your bed, the softness of your pillow, the Well-Being of your moment.  

6) Softly set forth the intention: 

     I will sleep well, and I will awaken refreshed with another new,
     good-feeling, positive point of attraction.

7) Go to sleep.  


pg. 39-40

Process to do when just waking up:

1) Realize you are awake and have reemerged back into the physical.  

2) Lie there for a little while and bask in the comfort of your bed, and then offer a thought such as:

    "Today, no matter where I am going, no matter what I am doing, no
    matter who I'm doing it with, it is my dominant intent to look for
    things that feel good.  When I feel good, I am vibrating with my
    higher power.  When I feel good, I am in harmony with that hich I
    consider to be good.  When I feel good, I am in the mode of
    attracting that which will please me once it gets here.  And when
    I feel good -- I feel good!"

3) Lie in bed for two or three minutes and look for the positive aspects of our surroudnings.  

4) As we move into the day, we would begin to acknowledge more positive aspects, looking for reasons to feel good no matter what the object of our attention is.

pg. 42

Any time you feel negative emotion, it means you are in the process of attracting something unwanted.  This is important information, and you should use it to assist you in guiding your thoughts in a more productive and beneficial direction.  

pg. 44

You get more and more of what you are thinking about -- whether you want it or not.  

pg. 46

We encourage you to begin each day with the statement:
"Today -- no matter where I go, no matter what I am doing, and no matter who I am doing it with -- it is my dominant intent to look for what I am wanting to see."

pg. 47

Look for things that feel good when you focus on them.  

pg. 50

Each night say:
"Tonight, as I sleep, all attraction will stop, which means tomorrow I will have a new beginning; and tomorrow I will look for what I am wanting to see because I want to feel good -- because feeling good is the most important thing.  


pg. 51

Now, it is not likely that just because you remain happy, others will immediately join you in your happiness.  In fact, when there is a great disparity between the way you are feeling and the way others are feeling, you will have a difficult time relating to one another; but in time, if you maintain your positive vibrational stance, they will either join you in your positive place, or they will vibrate right out of your experience.  They only way unhappy people can stay in your experience is by your continuing attention to them.  


When you sympathize with others, you should sympathize with the best-feeling aspects of others that you can find; and, in doing so, you may influence them to an improved condition also.  

pg. 53

The only way you can be happy is to decide to be happy.  When you take upon yourself the responsibility of another's happiness, you are attempting the impossible and you are setting youself up for a great deal of personal discord.  

pg. 53-55

[These pages contain information about how to handle relationship break-ups (from a vibrational perspective).]

pg. 55

You have the ability to pivot under any and all conditions.  It does not matter how negative something seems -- you have the ability to give your attention to the positive aspects of it.  The only things that get in your way are some old habits, or maybe some strong influences from others.  

pg. 57

As you hold to your intention to look for evidence of Well-Being and thriving and success and happiness, you will tune yourself to the vibrations of those things, and so those kinds of good-feeling experiences will dominate your life.  


Part 2: Attracting Money and Manifesting Abundance. 

pg. 62

The subject of money is really two subjects:
1) Money, plenty of money, the feeling of freedom and ease that plenty of money can provide.
2) The absence of money, not nearly enough money, the feeling of fear and disappointment that the thought of absence of money induces.  

pg. 64

First find your vibrational balance.  

If you will begin by identifying how you want to feel, or be, and let your inspiration to accumulate or to do come from that centered place, then not only will you maintain your balance, but you will now enjoy the things you gather and the things that you do.  

pg. 65

Our message is not for you to stop wanting, having, or doing.  Our message is for you to want and accumulate and do from your place of feeling good. 


Neither money nor poverty makes joy/happiness.

pg. 66

Most people give the majority of their attention to whatever is happening in their experience right now -- which means if the results please them, they feel good, but if the results do not please them, they feel bad.  But that is really going about life the hard way.  If you only have the ability to see what is, then things cannot improve.  You must find a way to look optimistically forward in order to achieve any improvement in your experience.  

When you learn how to deliberately focus your thoughts toward good-feeling things, it is not difficult to find happiness and maintain it even before your goal has been accomplished.  The feeling of struggle you were describing happens because of the continual comparison of where you are right now in relationship to the goal you are reaching for.  When you constantly take score, noticing the distance that still needs to be traveled, you amplify the distance, the task, the effort; and that is why it feels like such an uphill struggle.  

When you care about how you feel, and so choose thoughts on the basis of how they feel, you then develop patterns of thought that are more forward looking.  And as the Law of Attraction then responds to those better-feeling thoughts, you get more pleasing results.  Struggle, struggle, struggle never leads to a happy ending.  It defies Law.  "When I get there, then I'll be happy" is not a productive mind-set because unless you are happy, you cannot get there.  When you decide to first be happy -- then you will get there.  


pg. 67

Do you have a positive or negative attitude about money?  How do you feel when you sit to pay your bills?  Many people, without realizing it, the majority of their thoughts about money have been on the 'not-enough' side of the subject rather than on the 'abundant' side of the subject.

pg. 68

The wallet game is described:

Keep $100 in your wallet and deliberately notice how many things you could exchange this money for: "I could purchase that.  I could do that."  If you mentalyl spend that $100 one thousand times, you have vibrationally spent $100,000.  That sort of positive focus will dramatically change your vibrational balance about money.  This vibrational spending process will cause you to feel differently about money; and when that happens, your point of attraction will shift -- and more money must flow into your experience.  It is Law.  

You want to FEEL your prosperity.  Utilize it effectively to help you notice how good things are now, in the moment.  Because in your acknowledgement of your prosperous now, your prosperity must become more.  

Mentally spend your money and imagine an improved lifestyle.  Deliberately conjure a feeling of freedom by imagining what it would feel like to have a large amount of money at your disposal.  

pg. 69

The powerful feeling outweighs any action that is offered.  Any action that is offered from a place of lack is always counterproductive.  

pg. 70

An improved feeling of prosperity, even if your current reality does not justify the feeling, will always bring more prosperity to you.  Paying attention to the way you feel about money is a much more productive activity than noticing how others are doing.  


Imbalance:

  - If you want more money but doubt you can achieve it, then you are
    not in balance.

  - If you want more money but you believe there is something wrong in
    having money, then you are not in balance.

  - If you want more money and you are angry at those who have more
    money, then you are not in balance.

  - If you want more money and you feel you are not worthy, then you
    are not in balance.

  - When you are feeling those emotions of inadequancy, insecurity,
    jealousy, injustice, anger, and so on, your Emotional Guidance
    System is letting you know that you are out of alignment with your
    own desire.


pg. 71

Make statements such as:

"I want to be the best that I can be.  I want to do and have and live in a way that is in harmony with my idea of the greatest goodness.  I want to harmonize physically here in this body with that which I believe to be the best, or the good way, of life."

pg. 73

Vibrational discord is always the reason for negative emotion.  And negative emotion is always guidance to help you redirect your thoughts to find vibrational alignmnet with who-you-really-are and with your current desires.  

pg. 77

When you see others excelling in their attraction of money and you feel negative emotion about it, that is your signal that your current thought is not allowing the abundance that you desire into your experience.  When you find yourself critical of the way anyone has attracted or is using money, you are pushing money away from yourself.  But when you realize that what others do with money has nothing to do with you, and that your primary work is to think and speak and do what feels good to you, then you will be in alignment, not only about the subject of money, but about every important subject in your physical experience.  

pg. 78

Your action is responsible for but a minuscule part of what comes to you.  Your thoughts and words (words are thoughts articulated) are the reason your life unfolds as it does.  

The most valuable skill that you could ever develop is the skill of directing your thoughts toward what you want -- to be adept at quickly evaluating all situations and then quickly coming to the conclusion of what you most want -- and then giving your undivided attention to that.  There is a tremendous skill in directing your own thoughts that will yield results that cannot be compared with results that mere action can provide.  

pg. 79

Your knowledge in all things comes only through life experience, but your life experience comes as a result of the thoughts that you are thinking.  So even though you may have wanted something for a very long time, if your thoughts have been upon the absence of it, then it could not come to you.  And so, from your personal experience, you come to the conclusion that it is not possible, or that it is a struggle.  In other words, you come to many valid conclusions about things being hard when you have led a difficult life.  

It is our desire to help you understand what is really at the heart of that self-created struggle.  We want to help you begin from a different premise and understand the Laws at the basis of all things.  A new understanding of the Laws of the Universe and a willingness to begin telling a different story will give you different results, and those different results will then give you different beliefs or knowledge.  

You are the only one who can evaluate your effectiveness.  No one else has the ability to discern where you stand relative to where you are wanting to be, and nobody else can decide where you should be -- only you.  

pg. 80

Expecting results is the most productive: 
Expecting > Hoping > Doubting

pg. 85

Many believe that they must work hard, struggle, pay a price, and feel pain, and that they will then be rewarded for their struggle -- but that is not consistent with the Laws of the Universe: YOU CANNOT FIND A HAPPY ENDING TO AN UNHAPPY JOURNEY.  


If you believe that you must work hard in order to deserve the money that comes to you, then money cannot come to you unless you do work hard.  But the money that comes in response to physical action is very small in comparison with what comes through alignment of thought.  

pg. 86

Financial success, or any other kind of success, does not require hard work or action, but it does require alignment of thought.  You simply cannot offer negative thought about things that you desire and then make up for it with action or hard work.  When you learn to direct your own thoughts, you will discover the true leverage of Energy alignment.  


pg. 86-88

Is spending money comfortable?  

A belief in shortage will never resonate with your broader knowing, because there is no shortage.  

[More info in the book text.]

pg. 89

You can easily change your vibrational point of attraction by visualizing the lifestyle you desire and holding your attention upon those images until you begin to feel relief, which will indicate that a true vibrational shift has occurred.  

pg. 90

Do not let others set the standards about how much money you should have -- or about what you should do with it.  You are the only one who could ever accurately define that.  Come into alignment with who-you-really-are and allow the things that life has helped you to know that you want to flow into your experience.  

pg. 92

Some say that you should not want money at all because the desire for money is materialistic and not spiritual.  But remember you are here in this very physical world where spirit has materialized.  All of the magnificent phsyical things that are surrounding you are Spiritual in nature.  

[rluu: All physical things are the combination of Purusha/Prakriti.]


pg. 93-94

When you focus upon lack in an attitude of complaining, you establish a vibrational point of attraction that then gives you access only to more thoughts of complaint whether you are focused in your present, your past, or your future.

pg. 94-95

----------------------
An example of my "New" story about money:

  I like the idea that money is as available as the air I breathe.  I like the idea of breathing in and breathing out more money.  It is fun to imagine a lot of money flowing to me.  I can see how my feeling about money affects the money that comes to me.  I am happy to understand that with practice I can control my attitude about money, or about anything.  I notice that the more I tell my story of abundance, the better I feel.

  I like knowing that I am the creator of my own reality and that the money that flows into my experience is directly related to my thoughts.  I like knowing that I can adjust the amount of money that I receive by adjusting my thoughts.  

  Now that I understand the formula for creating; now that I understand that I do get the essence of what I think about; and most important, now that I understand that I can tell by the way I am feeling whether I am focused upon money or lack of money, I feel confident that in time, I will align my thoughts with abundance -- and money will flow powerfully into my experience.  

  I understand that the people around me hold many different perspectives about money, wealth, spending, saving, philanthropy, giving money, receiving money, earning money, and so forth, and that it is no necessary for me to understand their opinions or experiences.  I am relieved to know that I do not have to sort all of that out.  It is very nice to know that my only work is to align my own thoughts about money with my own desires about money, and that whenever I am feeling good, I have found that alignment.  

  I like knowing that it is alright for me to occasionally feel negative emotion regarding money.  But it is my intention to quickly direct my thoughts in better-feeling directions, for it is logical to me that thoughts that feel good when I think them will bring positive results.  

  I understand that money will not necessarily manifest instantly in my experience with the changing of my thinking, but I do expect to see steady improvement as a result of my deliberate effort to think better-feeling thoughts.  The first evidence of my alignment with money will be my improved feeling, my improved mood, and my improved attitude -- and then real changes in my financial situation will be soon to follow.  I am certain about that.  

  I am aware of the absolute correlation between what I have been thinking and the feeling about money and what is actually happening in my life experience.  I can see the evidence of the Law of Attraction's absolute and unerring response to my thought, and I look forward to more evidence in response to my improved thoughts.  

  I can feel a powerful leveraging of Energy in being more deliberate about my thoughts.  I believe, at many levels, that I have always known this, and it feels good to return to my core beliefs about my power and value and worthiness.  

  I am living a very abundant life, and it feels so good to realize that whatever this life experience causes me to desire -- I can achieve that.  I love knowing that I am unlimited.  

  I feel tremendous relief in recognizing that I do not have to wait for the money or the things to materialize before I can feel better.  And I now understand that when I do feel better, the things and experiences and money that I want must come.  

  As easily as air flows in and out of my being - so it is with money.  My desires draw it in, and my ease of thought lets it flow out.  In and out.  In and out.  Ever flowing.  Always easy.  Whatever I desire, whenever I desire, as much as I desire -- in and out.  

----------------------

Part 3: Maintaining My Physical Well-Being.

pg. 99

Abraham considers a state of joy as the greatest achievement of success.  And while the attainment of money and wonderful possessions certainly can enhance your state of joy, the achievement of a good-feeling physical body is by far the greatest factor for maintaining a continuing state of joy and Well-Being.

A good-feeling body is a powerful basis for an ongoing good attitude.  Not only does a good-feeling body promote positive thoughts, but that, also, positive thoughts promote a good-feeling body.  

pg. 100

Complaining about complaining is also complaining.  

Most people have no idea of the power of their own thoughts.  They do not realize that as they continue to find things to complain about, they disallow their own physical well-being.  Many do not realize that before they were complaining about an aching body or a chronic disease, they were complaining about many other things first.  It does not matter if the objecct of your complaint is about someone you are angry with, someone who has betrayed you, behavior in others that you believe is wrong, or something wrong with your own physical body -- complaining is complaining, and it disallows recovery.  

pg. 101

There is nothing in the Universe that responds faster to your thoughts than your own physical body, and so aligned thoughts bring a quick response and obvious results.  

Once you are sick, it is logical that you would notice how you feel, and in doing so, you would prolong sickness ... but it was not your attention to the lack of wellness that made you sick.  Instead, it was your attention to the lack of many things that you desire.  

pg. 101-102

If you could focus your attention upon the idea of experiencing physical well-being with as much passion as you focus upon the absence of it, not only would your recovery come quickly, but maintaining your physical well-being and balance would also be easy.  As you begin to positively focus, getting to feel so good about so many subjects that you often feel passion rise within you, you will begin to feel the power of the Universe -- the power that creates worlds -- flowing through you.  When you focus long enough that you feel passion, you harness more power and you achieve greater results.   

pg. 103

It is natural that by knowing what you do not want, you are able to clarify what you do want; and there is nothing wrong with identifying a problem before beginning to look for a solution.  But many people, over time, become problem oriented rather than solution oriented, and in their examination and explanation of the problem, they continue the perpetuation of the problem.  Again, a telling of a different story is of great value: Tell a solution-oriented story instead of a problem-oriented story.  

pg. 104

Set aside approximately 15 minutes where you can close your eyes and withdraw as much as possible from your awareness of 'what-is' [currently in your environment]. Try to find a quiet place where you will not be distracted, and imagine yourself in a state of physical thriving.  Imagine walking briskly and breathing deeply and enjoying the flavor of the air you are breathing.  Imagine walking briskly up a gentle incline and smile in appreciation of the stamina of your body.  Se yourself bending and stretching and enjoying the flexibility of your body.  

When you visualize for the joy of visualizing rather than with the intention of correcting some deficiency, your thoughts are more pure and therefore, more powerful.  When you visualize to overcome something that is wrong, your thoughts are diluted with the lackful side of the equation.  

pg. 105

Some people simply feel they do not have enough time left in their lives to be and do and have the things that they have dreamed of.  But we want you to understand that if you will take the time to deliberately align with the Energy that creates worlds, through the power of focusing your thoughts you will discover a leverage that will help you quickly accomplish things that have formerly seemed not possible.  

pg. 108

Wanting and believeing is alignment.
Wanting and expecting is alignment.
Expecting something unwanted is not alignment.

pg. 109

Love and joy.  

Good feeling is confirmation of your alignment with your Source.  

pg. 110

Chronic thoughts of ease promote wellness, while chronic stressful or resentful or hateful or fearful thoughts promote disease.  

You can get to wherever you want to be [health-wise, or life-wise] from wherever you are if you are able to distract your attention from the unwanted aspects of your life and focus upon aspects that are more pleasing.  It really is only a matter of focus.  

pg. 111

If this life experience contains the data that causes you to give birth to a desire, then the wherewithal to accomplish it is available to you.  But you must focus upon where you want to be -- not where you are -- or you cannot move toward your desire.  However, you cannot create outside your own beliefs.  

pg. 111-112

Diseases are continually being created.  When you begin to look for and understand the vibrational causes for diseases rather than looking for cures, then you will come ot the end of the pile of diseases.  When you are able to deliberately accomplish the emotion of ease and its accompanying vibrational alignment, it is possible to live disease free.  

pg. 112

Most people spend very little time basking in appreciation for the wellness they are currently experiencing, but instead they wait until they are sick and then they turn their attention to recovery.  

Good-feeing thoughts produce and sustain physical well-being.  

Every disease (dis-ease) is caused by vibrational discord or resistance, without exception.  

pg. 114

A continual searching for things wrong with your body will, in time, produce evidence of something wrong.  Not because it was lurking there all along, but because repeated thought eventually creates its equivalent.  

pg. 115

Your physical well-being, like everything else, is profoundly affected by the beliefs that you hold.

pg. 117

Question: How can someone feeling pain focus elsewhere?  
Answer: Look for times (or segments) when you are not feeling such intensity of throbbing pain -- and then focus upon the Well-Being.  

You have to find a way of separating what is happening in your experience from your emotional response to what is happening.  

pg. 118

Preventive wellness is far easier to accomplish than corrective wellness.  In either case, improved-feeling thoughts, thoughts of greater and greater relief, are the key.  


Feeling your way to the thoughts that promote wellness is much easier than trying to think yourself there. 

pg. 122

[Story about Norman Cousins who contracted a disease that was considered incurable.  He survived it by watching a series of humorous television programs.  He just watched these programs, laughed, and the disease went away.  (The programs distracted him from lack of well-being.)]

The two factors required in the creation of anything: Want it, and Allow it.  

pg. 123

Two factors that bring about healing: Desire and Belief.

Intention

Often you try to accomplish too much through action, and, in doing so, you feel tired or overwhelmed, and those feelings are your indicator that it is time to stop and refresh.  But often you push forward in action rather than taking the time to refresh and realign, and that is the very common reason for uncomfortable symptoms to begin to surface.  


pg. 124

There is no condition from which you cannot recover, but it is much easier if you catch it in the early, subtle states.  

pg. 126

One who never experiences negativity will not be sick. 

You never help others when you allow yourself to be a sounding board for their complaints.  Seeing them as you know they want to be is the most valuable thing you can do for them.  

pg. 133

When you take the time to find vibrational balance, the physical effort you apply will yield you wonderful results, but if you do not tend to your vibrational balance first, there is not enough action in the world to compensate for that misaligned Energy.  From your place of alignment, you will feel inspired to the beneficial behavior, just as from your place of misalignment, you are inspired to detrimental behavior.  

pg. 134

Regarding low energy:

The way you feel is always about the degree to which you are in alignment or out of alignment with your Source.  No exceptions.  

The way you feel is always about the relationship between the object of your attention and your true desire.  Giving thought to what is wanted will give you the invigoration that you seek.  

pg. 135

About the cause of illness:

Illness is caused by giving thought to unwanted topics, feeling negative emotion but ignoring it, and continuing to focus upon unwanted topics while negative emotions continues to come.

pg. 136-138

----------------------
An Example of My "New" Story about My Physical Well-Being:

  My body responds to my thoughts about it and to my thoughts about everything I think about.  The better my thoughts feel when I think them, the more I allow my own personal Well-being.  
  I like knowing that there is an absolute correlation between how I feel and what my chronic thoughts have been and how those thoughts felt as I thought them.  I like knowing that those feelings are meant to help me choose better-feeling thoughts, which produce better-feeling vibrations, which will produce a better-feeling body.  My body is so responsive to my thoughts, and that is such a good thing to know.  
  I am getting rather good at choosing my thoughts.  No matter what condition I find myself in, I have the power to change it.  My state of physical health is simply an indication of the state of my chronic thoughts -- I have control of both.  
  A physical body is an amazing thing in the way it began as a glob of fetal cells to become this full-blown human body.  I am impressed with the stability of the human body and the intelligence of the cells that make up the human body as I notice how my body accomplishes so many important functions without my conscious involvement.  
  I like that it is not my conscious responsibility to move the blood through y veins or the air through my lungs.  I like that my body knows how to do that and does that so well.  The human body in general is quite an amazing thing: an intelligent, flexible, durable, resilient, seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting, touching thing.  
  My own body serves me very well.  I love my exploration of life through my physical body.  I enjoy my stamina and flexibility.  I like living life in my body.
  I am so pleased with my eyes that look out into this world, seeing near and far from where I stand, distinguishing shapes and colors with such vivid perception of depths and distances.  I so enjoy my body's ability to hear and smell and taste and feel.  I love the tactile, sensual content of this planet and my life in my wonderful body.  
  I feel appreciation and fascination for my body's self-patching ability as I watch wounds cover over with new skin and as I discover renewed resiliency when trumas to my body occur.  
  I am so aware of my body's flexibility, my fingers' dexterity, and the immediate response that my muscles show to any task I attempt.  
  I like understanding that my body knows how to be well and is always moving toward wellness, and that as I do not get in the way of that with negative thought, wellness must prevail.  
  I like understanding the value of my emotions, and I understand that I have the ability to achieve and maintain physical well-being because I have the ability to find and maintain happy thoughts.  
  On any day in this world, even when some things in my body may not be at their best, I am ever aware that far, far, far, far more things are functioning as they should, and that the aspects of Well-Being of my body are dominant.  
  And most of all, I love my body's quick response to my attention and intentions.  I love understanding my mind-body-spirit connections and the powerful productive qualities of my deliberate alignment.  
  I love living life in my body.
  I feel such appreciation for this experience.  
  I feel good.  

----------------------

pg. 139

Part 4: Perspectives of Health, Weight, and Mind.

pg. 141

When you attempt to gather and process information about what is happening with other people's bodies instead of utilizing your own Emotional Guidance System to understand your current alignment or misalignment of Energy, it is tantamount to using a road map from a different country to plan your route in your own country: That information simply has no bearing on you an where you are right now.  

pg. 145

The way to get where you want to be is to give your full attention to what you do want, not to give your attention to what you do not want.  

pg. 147

Illness stems from your feelings of vulnerability and guardedness.  

pg. 148

As you see physical evidence around you, very often that physical evidence seems more real to you than a thought.  You say things like "This is really real -- this isn't just a thought," as if what is really real and a thought are two separate things.  But we want you to remember that the Universe does not distinguish between your thoughts of current reality and thoughts of imagined reality.  The Universe and the Law of Attraction are simply responding to your thought -- real or imagined, current or remembered.  

pg. 150

In every moment that you think about something that feels good, you are stopping the illness from going forward.  

As you think, "I am whole; it is my natural state to be well," those thoughts vibrate in a place that is in harmony with that which your Inner Being knows to be true, and you receive the full benefit of the thought Energy that comes forth from your Inner Being.

pg. 152

Your body is responding to your thoughts continually -- in fact, to nothing else.   Your body is absolutely a pure reflection of the way you think.  There is nothing else that is affecting your body other than your thoughts.  

pg. 153

Know that your basis is absolute freedom, that your quest is joy, and that the result of your life experience will be growth.  


It slows you down tremendously if you need to see evidence of something before you believe it, because that means you have to wait for someone else to create it before you can believe it.  But when you understand that the Universe, and the Law of Attraction, will respond to your imagined idea as quickly as it responds to an observed idea, then you can move quickly into new creations without having to wait for someone to accomplish it first.  

pg. 154

The most powerful thing you can do -- the thing that will give you much greater leverage than any action -- is to spend time every day visualizing your life as you want it to be.  We encourage that you go to a quiet and private environment for 15 minutes every day where you can close your eyes and imagine your body, your environment, your relationships, and your life in ways that please you.

What 'has been' has nothing to do with what 'will be', and what others experience has nothing to do with your experience... but you ust find a way to separate yourself from all of that -- from the past and from the others -- in order to be what you want to be.  

pg. 162

When you feel fat, you cannot attract slender. When you feel poor, you cannot attract prosperity.  That which you are -- the state of being that you feel -- is the basis from which you attract.  That is why "the better it gets, the better it gets; and the worse it gets, the worse it gets."

When you feel very negative about something, do not try to hammer it out and solve it immediately, because your negative attention to it just makes it worse.  Distract yourself from the thought until you feel better; and then take another run at it from your positive, fresh perspective.  

pg. 163

It is never a good idea to pursue any action that brings forth negative emotion, because the negative emotion means there is an Energy imbalance, and any action that you participate in during negative emotion will always produce negative results.  

pg. 164

The beliefs that you hold regarding food are boldly reflected in the experiences you are living:

  - If you believe that you can eat most anything and not gain weight,
    that is your experience.

  - If you believe that you gain weight easily, then you do.

  - If you believe that certain foods give you an energy boost, they do.

  - If you believe that certain foods deflate your energy, they do.

  - If you want to be slender, but you believe that a particular diet
    is not conductive to being slender, and you take the action of
    eating that diet, you will gain weight.



Part 5: Careers, as Profitable Sources of Pleasure.  

pg. 172

You are multifaceted beings and your dominant intent is to enjoy your absolute basis of freedom and, in your quest for joyful experiences, to experience expansion and growth.  In other words, without a real perception of freedom, you will never be joyful; and without joy, you cannot experience true expansion.  

pg. 174

You will never experience the deliciousness of feeling free until you release your desire to please others and replace it with your powerful intention to align to who-you-really-are (to your Source) by caring how you feel and choosing good-feeling thoughts that let you know you have found your alignment.  

pg. 176

Sometimes people worry that if they selfishly consider what makes them happy above all other things, they will be uncaring and unfair to those around them, but we know that the opposite is true.  When you care about your alignment with Source, which is represented by the way you feel, and you work to maintain your connection, anyone who is then your object of attention receives benefit form your gaze.  You cannot uplift another unless you are connected to the Stream of Well-Being yourself.  

Those who care about how they feel -- who consistently hold themselves in an attitude of good-feeling emotions; who are connected to Source and flowing positive thoughts outward toward whatever they are focused upon -- are usually seen by others to be ATTRACTIVE, and they are often the recipients of much appreciation and approval.  

pg. 177

The Law of Attraction does not surround you with dissatisifed people when you are satisfied.  And the Law of Attraction does not surround you with satisfied people when you are dissatisfied.  


Your value to those around you hinges upon only one thing: your personal alignment with Source.  

pg. 178

If your work feels unpleasant or unfulfilling or hard, it is not because you are standing in the wrong place, but because your perspective is clouded by contradicted thought.  You cannot have a happy ending to a journey that has not been pleasant along the way.  The end absolutely does not justify the means.  The means, or the path along the way, always brings about the essence of an identical ending.  

pg. 179

Make a decision about what you want!  (Consciously write all the things down).

Emerson said, "You wouldn't have the desire if you didn't have the ability to achieve it."

pg. 181

Freedom is the basis of your life experience; it is not something that you have to earn. 

Joy is your objective.  

Growth is the result of all of that.  

pg. 182

Question: Is it immoral to get without giving?

Answer:  Your question implies that there is a price to pay for the Well-Being that flows to you, and that some sort of action is required to justify the flowing of the Well-being.  That is not the case.  

Appreciation and love, and alignment to that which is Source, is the ultimate "giving back," so to speak.  

pg. 183

Seek joy first, and all of the growth that you could ever imagine will come joyously and abundantly unto you.  

pg. 186

It may sound strange, but the fastest way to an improved work environment is to look for things in your current environment that make you feel good.  Think and speak of what you DO want.  Make lists of things that are pleasant about where you are.  Think excitedly about the improvements that are on the way to you.  De-emphasize what you do not like.  Emphasize what you do like.  Observe the Universe's response to your improved vibration.  

Some worry that if they look for good things about where they are, it will only hold them longer in an unwanted place, but the opposite is really true: In your state of appreciation, you lift all self-imposed limitations (and all limitations are self-imposed) and you free yourself for the receiving of wonderful things.  [pg. 191]


pg. 190

The secret to all success is keeping yourself happy.  

You only ever uplift [others] from your position of connection and strength.


pg. 191

What manifests is the essence of something that you greatly appreciate.

pg. 193

Love and appreciation are identical vibrations.

pg. 193-194

Appreciation is different from gratitude.  Appreciation is that tuned-in, tapped-in, turned-on feeling.  Gratitude is related to a struggle that you have overcome.  Appreciation is the better feeling/state.  

The difference between the words "inspiration" (who-you-are) and "motivation" (trying to make yourself go somewhere), is a similar difference.  Inspiration is the better feeling/state.  

pg. 195

A state of appreciation is pure Connection to Source where there is no perception of lack.  

pg. 196

Shortage of time is not your problem.  Shortage of money is not your problem.  Shortage of Connection to the Energy that creates worlds is what is at the heart of all sensations of shortage that you are experiencing.  Those voids or shortages can be filled with only one thing: Connection to Source and alignment with who-you-realy-are.  

[rluu: There is tremendous leverage provided to your actions when you are 'aligned' (correct thoughts).]

pg. 200

----------------------
Example of new story to be told (choose from the following, and elaborate):

  - The positive aspects of my current subject of attention. 
  - The way I really want things to be.
  - How well things are going. 
  - How the Law of Attraction is the true manager of all things.
  - Abundance that flows abundantly. 
  - How time is perceptual and endless. 
  - The best things I see.
  - My favorite memories
  - The obvious expansion of my life.  
  - The amazing or interesting or wonderful aspects of my world.  
  - The incredible variety that surrounds me.
  - The willingness and effectiveness of so many.
  - The power of my own thoughts. 
  - The positive aspects of my own body.
  - The stable basis of my physical body.
  - How we all create our own reality. 
  - My absolute freedom and my joyous awareness of it.  

----------------------

pg. 204

When someone asks, "Do you know what you want?"  Remember to think of things that you've already got also, in addition to things that haven't come yet.  


pg. 205

A belief is just a thought you keep thinking.  

pg. 214-215

On these pages: analogy of a river current being just like the Source Energy.  The river moves faster as you think thoughts and have more desires.  It feels good when you move with the current (downstream), and it feels bad when you try to move against the current (upstream).  Moving with the current is using the leverage of the river to your advantage.  


pg. 218

There's plenty of money.  Nothing has gone wrong.  Everything that you want is lined up for you.  Whenever you're ready, it's right here for you.  There's nothing you need to do; you've done all the work.  All you need to do is relax and allow what you want to flow into your experience.  You want to begin to listen to the drum of the Source within you.  You want to listen to the call of Source.  Source is calling you in the direction of what you want.  And the way that you know that you're moving in the direction is because things start lightening up for you, meaning that they begin feeling really, really good to you.

Feeling really good means you feel energized.  You feel enthusiasm.  

pg. 220

The contrast in your life is to allow you to know what you prefer.  

pg. 222

You are the creator of your experience, and you must create your experience deliberately if you are to have the joyful experience that you are meant to have.  Unless you, in any moment, are seeing the world through the eyes of Source, then you are but a shadow of the Being that you've come forth to be.  Which means, if you are doing less than loving whatever it is you're giving your attention to, you are not who you were really born to be.  Negative emotion means you've pinched yourself off, to some degree, from who-you-really-are.

Just reach for one emotion: It is the emotion of relief.  

pg. 224

Keep telling things as you want them to be rather than telling it like it is.  Are there things in your life that are as you want them to be?  Keep telling that story.  If there are things in your life that are not as you want them to be, then don't tell that story.  

pg. 225-226

Have the thought/desire vibration from the HAVING point of view rather than the lacking point of view.  You have to find the vibrational essence of it.  

You have to find a way of distracting yourself from the absence of the money, while you activate within yourself a FEELING of the money.  

Pretend that it's already done.  By taking pieces of the fortune and mentally spending it.  By imaginging how much fun it will be to have it.  By enjoying the feeling of relief, even before you have the actual reason to feel the relief.  By caring so much about the way you feel that you guide your thoughts apart from the reality.  


pg. 226

Optimism and positive expectation is important when getting the Law of Attraction to work.  It is better to say things like: It's going to be nice when I figure this out.  I'm looking forward to figuring this out.

pg. 226-229

[See this page and the next one for a set of paragraphs that you can say to yourself to help get better at manifesting the Law of Attraction.]

Say: I can see how this money that is on its way to me will enhance my life in [X] way and [Y] way, and [Z] way.  An extra hundred dollars today would mean [these] changes.  An extra thousand dollars today would mean [these] changes.  If I were allowing in an extra hundred thousand dollars this year, I would do [this] with it.  If I allowed in an extra five hundred thousand dollars every year, oh, that would mean I would live over [there].  And that means I would drive [that].  And that means I would work at [X] and do [Y].

Just play with it in your mind -- envision.  

Vibrational change makes big manifestational change when you are consistent in it.  You can't say "I want it but".  When you say, "I want [X] because [A], I want [Y] because [B], I want [Z] because [C]..." then you make headway.  

You have to use your willpower to focus your thoughts into a different story line.  


pg. 230

The way you feel is the indicator of the direction you're moving [relative to your goal].

pg. 231

Thought by thought by thought by thought, you clean it up, clean it up, clean it up.  What do we mean by "clean it up?"  You tell it the way you WANT it to be, and tell it less the way you don't want it to be.  You stop FACING reality and you start CREATING reality.  

pg. 233

Everything that you want is because you think you will feel better in the having of it.  Whether it's money or a material object or a relationship or an experience, circumstance, event -- everything that you want is because you think if you had it, you would feel better; and when you discover that just the IDEA of it will make you feel better, now you've achieved the VIBRATIONAL ESSENCE of it.  And then, the Law of Attraction has to yield it to you in all of the intricate details that your life has caused you to carve out for yourself.  It has to be, and in fact, it IS.  


##############################################################################
