##############################################################################
Notes on the book "Secret of the Ages" by Robert Collier
##############################################################################

pg. 29

For mind does its building solely by the power of thought.  Its creations take form according to its thought.  Its first requisite is a mental image, and your desire held with unswerving purpose will form that mental image.  

When you pray earnestly you form a mental image of hte thing that you desire and you hold it strongly in your thought.  

pg. 33

The primal cause is mind.  Everything must start with an idea.  Every event, every condition, every thing is first an idea in the mind of someone.  

Mind draws the plan.  Thought forms the blueprint, well drawn or badly done, as your thoughts are clear or vague.  

Every condition, every experience of life is the result of our mental attitude.  We can do only what we think we can do.  We can be only what we think we can be.  We can have only what we think we can have.  What we do, what we are, what we have, all depend upon what we think.  We can never express anything that we do not first have in mind.  The secret of all power, all success, all riches, is in first thinking powerful thoughs, successful thoughts, and thoughts of wealth, of supply.  We must build them in our own mind first.

pg. 36

The world is to each one of us the world of his individual perceptions.


You are like a radio receiving station. Every moment thousands of impressions are reaching you. You can tune in on whatever ones you like—on joy or sorrow, on success or failure, on optimism or fear. You can select the particular impressions that will best serve you, you can hear only what you want to hear, you can shut out all disagreeable thoughts and sounds and experiences, or you can tune in on discouragement and failure and despair.

Yours is the choice. You have within you a force against which the whole world is powerless. By using it, you can make what you will of life and of your surroundings.

pg. 37

May not your waking existence be largely the creation of your own mind, just as your dream pictures are?

The most powerful forces of man are his invisible forces: his thought forces.

pg. 38

For verily I say unto you, that whosoever shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea; and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that those things which he saith shall come to pass; he shall have whatsoever he saith.


No matter how hard you may work for success, if your thought is saturated with the fear of failure, it will kill your efforts, neutralize your endeavors, and make success impossible.

pg. 39

“The Kingdom of Heaven is within you.” Heaven is not some far-away state—the reward of years of tribulation here. Heaven is right here—here and now! When Christ said that Heaven was within us, He meant just what He said—that the power for happiness, for good, for everything we need of life, is within each one of us.

For the world without is but a reflection of that world within. Your thought creates the conditions your mind images. Keep before your mind’s eye the image of all you want to be and you will see it reflected in the world without. Think abundance, feel abundance, BELIEVE abundance, and you will find that as you think and feel and believe, abundance will manifest itself in your daily life. But let fear and worry be your mental companions, thoughts of poverty and limitation dwell in your mind, and worry and fear, limitation and poverty will be your constant companions day and night.

pg. 40

What is money but a mere idea of mind, a token of exchange?

pg. 41

Wealth is in ideas, not in money or property.  You can control those ideas through mind.  

pg. 41-42

Thought externalizes itself. What we are depends entirely upon the images we hold before our mind’s eye. Every time we think, we start a chain of causes, which will create conditions similar to the thoughts, which originated it. Every thought we hold in our consciousness for any length of time becomes impressed upon our subconscious mind and creates a pattern, which the mind weaves into our life or environment.

All power is from within and is therefore under our own control. When you can direct your thought processes, you can consciously apply them to any condition, for all that comes to us from the world without is what we’ve already imaged in the world within.

Do you want more money? Sit you down now quietly and realize that money is merely an idea. That your mind is possessed of unlimited ideas. That being part of Universal Mind, there is no such thing as limitation or lack. That somewhere, somehow, the ideas that shall bring you all the money you need for any right purpose are available for you. That you have but to put it up to your subconscious mind to find these ideas.

Realize that—believe it—and your need will be met. “What things so ever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive it and ye shall have it.” Don’t forget that “believe that ye receive it.” This it is that images the thing you want on your subconscious mind. And this it is that brings it to you. Once you can image the belief clearly on your subconscious mind, “whatsoever it is that ye ask for . . . ye shall have it.”

pg. 42

All growth, all supply is from the world-within. If you would have power, if you would have wealth, you have but to image it on this world within, on your subconscious mind, through belief and understanding.

pg. 44

Learn to control your thought. Learn to image upon your mind only the things you want to see reflected there.

You will never improve yourself by dwelling upon the drawbacks of your neighbors. You will never attain perfect health and strength by thinking of weak-ness or disease. No man ever made a perfect score by watching his rival’s target. You have got to think strength, think health, think riches. To paraphrase Pascal— “Our achievements today are but the sum of our thoughts of yesterday.”

For thought is energy. Mental images are concentrated energy. And energy concentrated on any definite purpose becomes power.

pg. 45

You can call upon your inner forces at will. There are three steps necessary:
1) Realize that you have the power.
2) Know what you want. (Desire).
3) Center your thought upon it with singleness of purpose.

[rluu: There must be belief that you will receive it also.]

pg. 47

You've got to know what you want before you stand much chance of getting it.

pg. 49

Remember this -- there is no condition so hopeless, no life so far gone, that mind cannot redeem it.  

pg. 50

You've got to concentrate on ONE IDEA AT A TIME.

All concentration ever is: getting so interested in some one thing that you pay no attention to anything else that is going on around you.

Hold in your mind the thing you most desire.  Affirm it.  Believe it to be an existing fact. 

pg. 51

You can have anything you want—if you want it badly enough. You can be anything you want to be, have anything you desire, accomplish anything you set out to accomplish—if you will hold to that desire with singleness of purpose; if you will understand and BELIEVE in your own powers to accomplish.

What is it that you wish in life? Is it health? In the chapter on health I will show you that you can be radiantly well—without drugs, without tedious exercises. It matters not if you are crippled or bedridden or infirm. Your body rebuilds itself entirely every eleven months. You can start now rebuilding along perfect lines.

Your desire must be visualized, must be persisted in, must be concentrated upon, and must be impressed upon your subconscious mind. Don’t bother about the means for accomplishing your desire—you can safely leave that to your subconscious mind.

pg. 52

Pray is just an earnest desire that we take to Universal Mind for fulfillment.

pg. 53

Go where you can be alone, where you can concentrate your thoughts on your one innermost sincere desire, where you can impress that desire upon your subconscious mind without distraction, and so reach the Universal Mind.

Model your prayer after the Pslamists of old:
They first asked for that which they wanted, then killed all doubts and fears by affirming God’s power and His willingness to grant their prayers. So when you pray, ask for the things that you want. Then affirm God’s readiness and His Power to grant your prayer.

pg. 55

But remember: you would not plant a valuable seed in your garden, and then, a day or a week later, go out and dig it up to see if it were sprouting. On the contrary, you would nourish it each morning with water. It is the same with your prayers. Don’t plant the seed of your desire in your subconscious mind and then go out the next morning and tear it up with doubts and fears. Nourish it by holding in thought the thing you desire, by believing in it, visualizing it, SEEING it as an accomplished fact.

pg. 55-56

If you ask for my own formula for successful prayer, I would say—

1) Center your thoughts on the thing that you want. Visualize it. Make a mental image of it. You are planting the seed of Desire. But don’t be content with that. Planting alone will not make a seed of corn grow. It has to be warmed by sunshine, nurtured by rain. So with the seed of your Desire. It must be warmed by Faith, nurtured by constant Belief.

2) Read the 91st and the 23rd Psalms, just as a reminder of God’s power and His readiness to help you in all your needs.

3) Don’t forget to be thankful, not merely for past favors, but for the granting of this favor you are now asking! To be able to thank God for it sincerely, in advance of its actual material mani-festation, is the finest evidence of belief.

4) BELIEVE! Picture the thing that you want so clearly, see it in your imagination so vividly, that for the moment, at least, you will actually BELIEVE THAT YOU HAVE IT!

It is this sincere conviction, registered upon your subconscious mind, and through it upon Universal Mind that brings the answer to your prayers. Once convince your subconscious mind that you HAVE the thing you want, and you can forget it and go on to your next problem. Mind will attend to the bringing of it into being.

pg. 58

It is the direction as well as the energy of struggle that counts in making progress. To get ahead—you must swim with the tide. Men prosper and succeed who work in accord with natural forces. 

pg. 59

Our own minds are part of this Universal Mind.

If we will work in harmony with It, we can draw upon Universal Mind for all power, all intelligence, in the same way that the sun’s rays draw upon their source for the heat and light they bring the earth.

pg. 60

The quality of your thought is the measure of your power.  

You don't need to originate the ways and means.  The Universal Mind knows how to bring about any necessary results.  

pg. 61

When you become conscious, even to a limited degree, of your oneness with Universal Mind, your ability to call upon It at will for anything you may need, it makes a different man of you. Gone are the fears gone are the worries. You know that your success, your health, your happiness will be measured only by the degree to which you can impress the fruition of your desires upon mind.

pg. 62

The flash of genius does not originate in your own brain. Through intense concentration you’ve established a circuit through your subconscious mind with the Universal, and it is from It that the inspiration comes. All genius, all progress, is from the same source. It lies with you merely to learn how to establish this circuit at will so that you can call upon It at need. It can be done.

There are mental processes at work for your benefit, and when they have worked out the problem for you they gleefully push it up from their plane on to the plane of the outer consciousness where you may use it.

pg. 63

If you would learn to take advantage of the work of these Subconscious Brownies, we advise you to form a mental picture of the Subconscious Storehouse in which is stored all sorts of knowledge that you have placed there during your lifetime, as well as the impressions that you have acquired by race inheritance—racial memory, in fact. The information stored away has often been placed in the storage rooms without any regard for systematic storing, or arrangement, and when you wish to find something that has been stored away there a long time ago, the exact place being forgotten, you are compelled to call to your assistance the little brownies of the mind, which perform faithfully your mental command, "Recollect this for me!"

pg. 64

Perhaps the best way for the average person—or rather the majority of persons—to get the desired results is for one to get as clear an idea of what one really wants to know—as clear an idea or mental image of the question you wish answered. Then after rolling it around in your mind—mentally chewing it, as it were—giving it a high degree of voluntary attention, you can pass it on to your Subconscious Mentality with the mental command: ‘Attend to this for me—work out the answer!’ or some similar order. This command may be given silently, or else spoken aloud— either will do. Speak to the Subconscious Mentality—or its little workers—just as you would speak to persons in your employ, kindly but firmly. Talk to the little workers, and firmly command them to do your work. And then forget all about the matter—throw it off your conscious mind, and attend to your other tasks. Then in due time will come your answer—flashed into your consciousness—perhaps not until the very minute that you must decide upon the matter, or need the information.

pg. 64-65

The steps:

1) First, fill your mind with every bit of information regarding that problem that you can lay your hands on.

2) Second, pick out a chair or lounge or bed where you can recline in perfect comfort, where you can forget your body entirely.

3) Third, let your mind dwell upon the problem for a moment, not worrying, not fretting, but placidly, and then turn it over to the “Man Inside You.” Say to him—”This is your problem. You can do anything. You know the answer to everything. Work this out for me!” And utterly relax. Drop off to sleep, if you can. At least, drop into one of those half-sleepy, half-wakeful reveries that keep other thoughts from obtruding upon your consciousness, Do as Aladdin did—summon your Genii, give him your orders, then forget the matter, secure in the knowledge that he will attend to it for you. When you waken, you will have the answer!

Of course, not everyone can succeed in getting the right thought across to the subconscious at the first or the second attempt. It requires understanding and faith, just as the working out of problems in mathematics requires an understanding of and faith in the principles of mathematics. But keep on trying, and you WILL do it. And when you do, the results are sure.

pg. 65

If it is something that you want, VISUALIZE it first in your mind’s eye, see it in every possible detail, see yourself going through every move it will be necessary for you to go through when your wish comes into being. Build up a complete story, step by step, just as though you were acting it all out. Get from it every ounce of pleasure and satisfaction that you can. Be thankful for this gift that has come to you. Then relax; go on to sleep if you can; give the “Man Inside You” a chance to work out the consummation of your wish without interference.

When you waken, hold it all pleasurably in thought again for a few moments. Don’t let doubts and fears creep in, but go ahead, confidently, knowing that your wish is working itself out. Know this, believe it—and if there is nothing harmful in it, IT WILL WORK OUT!

For somewhere in Universal Mind there exists the correct solution of every problem. It matters not how stupendous and complicated, nor how simple a problem may appear to be. There always exists the right solution in Universal Mind. And because this solution does exist, there also exists the ability to ascertain and to prove what that solution is. You can know, and you can do, every right thing. Whatever it is necessary for you to know, whatever it is necessary for you to do, you can know and you can do, if you will but seek the help of Universal Mind and be governed by its suggestions.

pg. 67

Make your mental image clear enough, picture it vividly in every detail, and the Genie-of-your-Mind will speedily bring it into being as an everyday reality.  There is nothing you can desire that cannot be brought into being through visualization.  

pg. 68

Remember that the only limit to your capabilities is the one you place upon them. There is no law of limitation. The only law is of supply. Through your subconscious mind you can draw upon universal supply for anything you wish. The ideas of Universal Mind are as countless as the sands on the seashore. Use them. And use them lavishly, just as they are given.

pg. 69

Whatever price you set upon yourself, life will give. So aim high. Demand much! Make a clear, distinct mental image of what it is you want. Hold it in your thought. Visualize it, see it, and believe it! The ways and means of satisfying that desire will follow. For supply always comes on the heels of demand.

pg. 72

Every human experience is an effect.  The world without is a reflection of the world within.  

pg. 73

The world is a looking-glass, and gives back to every man the reflection of his own thought.  [Paraphrasing of Thackery.]


The thoughts are causes and the conditions are the effects.  

pg. 74

There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.  -Shakespeare.

pg. 76-77

You must practice thinking:

Breathe in deep, long breaths (thoughts) of unlimited health and strength, unlimited happiness and success. Practice looking forward— always looking forward to something better—better health, finer physique, greater happiness, bigger success. Take these mental breathing exercises every day. See how easily you will control your thoughts. How quickly you will see the good effects. You’ve got to think all the time. Your mind will do that anyway. And the thoughts are constantly building—for good or ill. 

pg. 80

So don’t go out a-seeking of wealth. Look within you for ideas! “The Kingdom of God is within you.” Use it— purposefully! Use it to THINK constructively.

When I use the word 'thinking,' I mean thinking with a purpose, with an end in view, thinking to solve a problem.

pg. 81

The essence of this law is that you must think abundance; see abundance feel abundance, believe abundance. Let no thought of limitation enter your mind. There is no lawful desire of yours for which, as far as mind is concerned, there is not abundant satisfaction. And if you can visualize it in mind, you can realize it in your daily world.

Nourish your seeds with renewed desire. Keep before your mind’s eye the picture of the thing you want. BELIEVE IN IT!  Forget your fears.  Forget the obstacles in between.  Keep only the goal before your mind's eye and you'll win it!

pg. 82

Get firmly fixed in your own mind the definite conviction that you can do anything you greatly want to do. There is no such thing as lack of opportunity. There is no such thing as only one opportunity. You are subject to a law of boundless and perpetual opportunity, and you can enforce that law in your behalf just as widely as you need. Opportunity is infinite and ever present.

pg. 85

Your actual salary is of slight importance compared with the knowledge and ability you add to your mind. Given a full storehouse there, the salary or the riches will speedily follow. 



Daydream for a while. Believe that you have that abundance now. Practice being rich in your own mind. See yourself driving that expensive car you have always longed for, living in the sort of house you have often pictured, well-dressed, surrounded by everything to make life worth while. Picture yourself spending this money that is yours, lavishly, without a worry as to where more is coming from, knowing that there is no limit to the riches of Mind. Picture yourself doing all those things you would like to do, living the life you would like to live, providing for your loved ones as you would like to see them provided for. See all this in your mind’s eye. Believe it to be true for the moment. Know that it will all be true in the not-very-distant future. Get from it all the pleasure and enjoyment you can.

pg. 86

So instead of thinking that you need money, realize that money needs YOU. Money is just so much wasted energy without work to do. Your ideas provide the outlet for it, the means by which money can do things. Develop your ideas; secure in the knowledge that money is always looking for such an outlet. When the ideas are perfected, money will gravitate your way without conscious effort on your part, if only you don’t dam up the channels with doubts and fears.

And remember that the more you have to offer—the more of riches will flow to you. Dollars are of no value except as they are used.

You have seen the rich attacked time and again in newspapers and magazines. You have read numberless articles and editorials against them. You have heard agitators declaim against them by the hour. But have you ever heard one of them say a single word against the richest man of them all—Henry Ford? I haven’t. And why? Because Henry Ford’s idea of money is that it is something to be used—something to provide more jobs, something to bring more comfort, more enjoyment, into an increasingly greater number of lives.

That is why money flows to him so freely. That is why he gets so much out of life. And that is how you, too, can get in touch with Infinite Supply. Realize that it is not money you have to seek, but a way to use money for the world’s advantage. Find the need! Look at everything with the question—How could that be improved? To what new uses could this be put? Then set about supplying that need, in the absolute confidence that when you have found the way, money will flow freely to and through you. Do your part—and you can confidently look to Universal Mind to provide the means.

pg. 89

Just as the first law of gain is desire, so the formula of success is BELIEF. Believe that you have it—see it as an existent fact—and anything you can rightly wish for is yours.  Have belief and faith in yourself.  

pg. 90

It is your own belief in yourself that counts. It is the consciousness of dominant power within you that makes all things attainable. You can do anything you think you can!

pg. 91

Plant the seed of desire. Nourish it with a clear visualization of the ripened fruit. Water it with sincere faith. But leave the means to Universal Mind.

pg. 92

But don’t let one success—no matter how great—satisfy you. The Law of Creation, you know, is the Law of Growth. You can’t stand still. You must go forward—or be passed by. Complacency — self-satisfaction — is the greatest enemy of achievement. You must keep looking forward.

pg. 93

For your mind to function at its highest capacity, you've got to be charge dwith good cheer and optimism.  

pg. 94

A happy disposition is the result—not the cause—of happy, cheery thinking. Health and prosperity are the results primarily of optimistic thoughts.  

Your chances of success in any undertaking can always be measured by your BELIEF in yourself.

All the factors of success or failure are in your inner world.  

The richness of life is within you. No one has failed so long as he can begin again.


Take the first step, and your mind will mobilize all its forces to your aid. But the first essential is that you begin. Once the battle is started, all that is within and without you will come to your assistance, if you attack in earnest and meet each obstacle with resolution. But you have got to start things.

pg. 95-96

You know that you can have what you want; if you want it badly enough and can believe in it earnestly enough. So tonight, just before you drop off to sleep, concentrate your thought on this thing that you most desire from life. BELIEVE that you have it. SEE YOURSELF possessing it. FEEL yourself using it.  Do that every night until you ACTUALLY DO BELIEVE that you have the thing you want. When you reach that point, YOU WILL HAVE IT!

pg. 98

Affirm the good, the true—and the evil will vanish. It is like turning on the light—the darkness immediately disappears. For there is no actual substance in darkness—it is merely absence of light. Nor is there any substance in sickness or evil—it is merely the absence of health or good.

pg. 99

The great need is an open mind and the desire for understanding.  You must drop all your preconceived ideas, all your prejudices.  

Just remember that any great movement must have at least a grain of truth back of it, else it could never grow to any size. Seek that grain of truth. Be open- minded. Keep your eyes and ears open for the truth.

pg. 100

Every form of disease or sickness is solely the result of wrong thinking (conscious or unconscious). The primary law of being is the law of health and life. When you recognize this, when you hold before your mind’s eye only a perfect body, perfect organisms functioning perfectly, you will "realize the truth that makes you free."

pg. 101

What one expects to get he is apt to get, especially where health is concerned.

pg. 102

For the law of attraction is service. We receive in proportion as we give out. In fact, we usually receive in far greater proportion. “Cast thy bread upon the waters and it will return to you an hundred-fold.”

[rluu: Answer to the question, "What service am I providing by being a trader?":  The service I provide is price discovery to others in the markets.]


Your thoughts are the causes. The effect is the environment. The only way you can change the effect is by first changing the cause.

pg. 103

You cannot receive good while expecting evil.  You cannot demonstrate plenty while looking for poverty.  

You've got to USE your talent if you want to profit from it.  It matters not how small your service -- using it will make it greater.  

pg. 104

If you want to make more money, instead of seeking it for yourself, see how you can make more for others. In the process you will inevitably make more for yourself, too. We get as we give— but we must give first.

There is no kind of work than cannot be bettered by thought. There is no method that cannot be improved by thought. So give generously of your thought to your work. Think every minute you are at it—”Isn’t there some way in which this could be done easier, quicker, better?” Read in your spare time everything that relates to your own work or to the job ahead of you. In these days of magazines and books and libraries, few are the occupations that are not thoroughly covered in some good work.

pg. 105

Look around YOU now. How can YOU give greater value for what you get? How can you SERVE better? How can you make more money for your employers or save more for your customers? Keep that thought ever in the forefront of your mind and you’ll never need to worry about making more for yourself!

Summed up now, the result of all my experience, pleasant and unpleasant, is that a man gets back exactly what he gives out, only multiplied.  [rluu: A.K.A. The law of karma.]

pg. 107-108

What you have, give—to everybody. If you have an idea, do not save it for your own use only; give it. It is the best thing you have to give and therefore the thing best to give—and therefore the thing that will bring the best back to you. I believe that if a man would follow this principle, even to his trade secrets, he would profit steadily more and more; and more certainly than he will by holding on to anything for himself. He would never have to worry about his own affairs because he would be working on fundamental law. Law never fails—and it will be easy for you to discover what is or is not law. And if law is worth using part of the time, it is worth using all the time.

pg. 109

The three requisites evaluated when hiring/dealing with people (in business as in social life):

1) Confidence (belief) in yourself -- knowledge of your power.  
2) Initiative or the courage to start things.  Lots of men have ideas, but few hav the confidence in themselves or the courage to start anything.  
3) The faith to go ahead and do things in the face of all obstacles.  

pg. 110


Realize that all that [the great men before you] did, all that they learned, all the skill they acquired is stored safely away in Universal Mind and that through your subconscious mind you have ready access to it.

[rluu: This is what Gann meant when he said you can know all there is to know.]


pg. 111

Everything that has been done, thought, gained, or been is in Universal Mind. And you are a part of Universal Mind. You have access to it. You can call upon it for all you need in the same way you can go to your files or to a library for information. If you can realize this fact, you will find in it the key to the control of every circumstance, the solution of every problem, the satisfaction of every right desire.


Never let discouragement hold you back. Discouragement is the most dangerous feeling there is, because it is the most insidious. Generally it is looked upon as harmless, and for that very reason it is the more sinister. For failure and success are oftentimes separated by only the distance of that one word— Discouragement.

pg. 112

Cultivate confidence in yourself. Cultivate the feeling that you ARE succeeding. Know that you have unlimited power to do every right thing. Know that with Universal Mind to draw upon, no position is too difficult, and no problem too hard. When you put limitations upon yourself, when you doubt your ability to meet any situation, you are placing a limit upon Universal Mind.

pg. 113

Fear is merely creative thougth in negative form. 

pg. 114

The real cause of all sickness is fear.  

pg. 115

If you want to never again complain of tired bodies, aching muscles, or frayed nerves, then hold steadfast to thoguhts of exhaustless strength, of super-abundant vitality.

Never fear disaster, for the fear of it is an invitation to disaster to come upon you.  

The only refuge [against fear] is in the knowledge that it has no power other than the power you give to it.  

pg. 116

Therefore concentrate [your mind] only upon good things, only upon those conditions you wish to see manifested. Think health, power, abundance, and happiness. 

Drive all thoughts of poverty and disease, of fear and worry, as far from your mind as you drive filth from your homes.  Banish from among your associates any man with a negative outlook on life. Shun him as you would the plague.  Don’t let him pull you down with him.

pg. 117

You cannot reflect the richness and plenty of Universal Mind, you cannot mirror peace and health and happiness, if you are constantly worried, continually stirred by waves of fear, winds of anger, tides of toil and striving. You must relax at times. You must give mind a chance. You must realize that, when you have done your best, you can confidently lean back and leave the outcome to Universal Mind.


The trouble with most men in business: They never wipe the slate clean! They worry! And they carry each day’s worries over to the next, with the result that some day the burden becomes more than they can carry.

pg. 119

Your mind is part and parcel of Universal Mind. You have the wisdom of all the ages to draw upon. Use it! Use it to do your work in a way it was never done before. Use it to find new outlets for your business, new methods of reaching people, new and better ways of serving them. Use it to uncover new riches, to learn ways to make the world a better place to live in.

Concentrate your thought upon these things, knowing that back of you is the vast reservoir of Universal Mind, that all these things are already known to It, and that you have but to make your contact for them to be known to you.

[rluu: I should make a list of various topics and skills.  Then make a list of people that were very accomplished (expert) in each of these areas throughout history.  Then whenever a moment comes when I wish to have or exert any of those skills, I can simply think of the person(s) on the list, visualize them, and ask for their help and their skills/energies to flow through me.]

pg. 120

Grasp this idea of the availability of Universal Mind for your daily needs, and your vision will become enlarged, your capacity increased. You will realize that the only limits upon you are those you put upon yourself. There will be no such thing then as difficulties and opposition barring your way.


Exercise:

We feed and nourish the body daily. But few people give any thought to nourishing that far more important part—the Mind. So let us try, each day, to set apart a few minutes time to give the Mind a repast.

To begin with, relax! Stretch out comfortably on a lounge or in an easy chair and let go of every muscle, loosen every bit of tension, forget every thought of fear or worry. Relax mentally and physically.

Few people know how to relax entirely. Most of us are on a continual strain, and it is this strain that brings on physical disturbances—not any real work we may do. 

Here is a little exercise that will help you to thoroughly relax:

Recline comfortably on a lounge or bed. Stretch luxuriously first, then when you are settled at your ease again, lift the right leg a foot or two. Let it drop limply. Repeat slowly twice. Do the same with the left leg. With the right arm. With the left arm. You will find then that all your muscles are relaxed. You can forget them and turn your thoughts to other things.

Try to realize the unlimited power that is yours. Think back to the dawn of time, when Mind first imaged from nothingness the heavens and the earth and all that in them is. Remember that, although your mind is to Universal Mind only as a drop of water to the ocean, this drop has all the properties of the great ocean; one in quality although not in quantity; your mind has all the creative power of Universal Mind.


Around you is the same electronic energy from which Universal Mind formed the heavens and the earth. What do you wish to form from it? What do you want most from life? Hold it in your thought, visualize it, and SEE it! Make your model clear-cut and distinct.

1. Remember, the first thing necessary is a sincere desire, concentrating your thought on one thing with singleness of purpose.

2. The second is visualization—SEEING YOURSELF DOING IT—imaging the object in the same way that Universal Mind imaged all of creation.

3. Next is faith; BELIEVING that you HAVE this thing that you want. Not that you are GOING to have it, mind you—but that you HAVE it.

4. And the last is gratitude—gratitude for this thing that you have received, gratitude for the power that enabled you to create it, gratitude for all the gifts that Mind has laid at your feet.

“Trust in the Lord . . . and verily thou shalt be fed.”

“Delight thyself also in the Lord, and He shall give thee the desires of thy heart.”

“Commit thy way unto the Lord, and He Shall bring it to pass.”


pg. 124

All of Universal Mind that is necessary to solve any given problem, to meet any need, is wherever that need may be. Supply is always where you are and what you need. It matters not whether it be sickness or trouble, poverty or danger, the remedy is there, waiting for your call. Go at your difficulty boldly, knowing that you have infinite resources behind you, and you will find these forces closing around you and coming to your aid.

pg. 126

Remember that your thought is all-powerful. That it is creative. That there is no limitation upon it of time or space. And that it is ever available.

Forget your worries. Forget your fears. In place of them, visualize the conditions you would like to see. Realize their availability. Declare to yourself that you already have all these things that you desire, that your needs have been met. Say to yourself: “How thankful I am that Mind has made all these good things available to me. I have everything that heart could desire to be grateful for.”

Every time you do this, you impress the thought upon your subconscious mind. And the moment you can convince your subconscious mind of the truth of it—that moment your mind will proceed to make it true.

pg. 127

Your mind is part of Universal Mind. And Universal Mind has all supply. You are entitled to, and you can have, just as much of that supply as you are able to appropriate. To expect less is to get less, for it dwarfs your power of receiving.

pg. 128

[rluu: Utilize the subconscious mind (Universal Mind) in ALL work that I do (writing, piano, brainstorming, competing, etc.).  This Universal Mind is the source of all inspiration.]

[rluu: Indian mathematician Ramanujan, musician Mozart, and many other geniuses must have utilized the Universal Mind to achieve their successes.]

pg. 129

So it is with life.  Every day has its worthwhile rewards for work well done. Every day offers its chance for happiness. But those rewards seem so small, those chances so petty, compared with the big things we see ahead. So we pass them by, never recognizing that the great position we look forward to, the shining prize we see in the distance, is just the sum of all the little tasks, the heaped up result of all the little prizes that we must win as we go along.


pg. 131

"I am the Master of my fate."  Until you have learned that, you will never attain life’s full success. Your fate is in your own hands. You have the making of it. What you are going to be six months or a year from now depends upon what you think today.

pg. 133

“It is the victorious mental attitude, the consciousness of power, the sense of mastership, that does the big things in this world. If you haven’t this attitude, if you lack self-confidence, begin now to cultivate it.

"Now, my friends, there is the same difference between the man who is highly magnetized by a sublime faith in himself, and the man who is de-magnetized by his lack of faith, his doubts, his fears, that there is between the magnetized and the de-magnetized pieces of steel. If two men of equal ability, one magnetized by a divine self-confidence, the other demagnetized by fear and doubt, are given similar tasks, one will succeed and the other will fail. The self-confidence of the one multiplies his powers a hundredfold; the lack of it subtracts a hundredfold from the power of the other."

pg. 135

Look as though you have already succeeded.  Shakespeare expresses the same thought in another way—”Assume a virtue if you have it not.” Look the part. Dress the part. Act the part. Be successful in your own thought first. It won’t be long before you will be successful before the world as well.

“It is just as easy to think in terms of abundance, opulence and prosperity as it is to think in terms of lack, limitation and poverty.

“If a man will raise his rate of vibration by faith currents or hope currents, these vibrations go through the Universal Mind and lodge in the consciousness of people who are keyed to the same tune. Whatever you think is sometime, somewhere, received by a person who is tuned to your thought key.

pg. 136

"Birds of a feather flock together," and minds of like thinking are attracted one to the other.

“If you need money, all you have to do is to send up your vibrations to a strong, courageous receiving station, and someone who can meet your needs will be attracted to you or you to him.”

When you learn that you are entitled to win—in any right undertaking in which you may be engaged—you will win. When you learn that you have a right to a legitimate dominion over your own affairs, you will have dominion over them.

The secret of being what you have it in you to be is simply this: Decide now what it is you want of life, exactly what you wish your future to be. Plan it out in detail. Vision it from start to finish. See yourself as you are now, doing those things you have always wanted to do. Make them REAL in your mind’s eye—feel them, live them, believe them, especially at the moment of going to sleep, when it is easiest to reach your subconscious mind—and you will soon be seeing them in real life.

It matters not whether you are young or old, rich or poor. The time to begin is NOW. It is never too late.

pg. 138

Your ability to think is your connecting link with Universal Mind, that enables you to draw upon It for inspiration, for energy, for power. Mind is the energy in static form. Thought is the energy in dynamic form.  Your success or failure depends entirely upon the quality of your thought.

pg. 141

The secret of power is in understanding the infinite resources of your own mind. When you begin to realize that the power to do anything, to be anything, to have anything, is within yourself, then and then only will you take your proper place in the world.

pg. 142

Nothing splendid has ever been achieved except by those who dared believe that something inside them was superior to circumstance.

Make the daydreams come true. Make them so clear and distinct that they impress themselves upon your subconscious mind.

But [Mozart and Tesla] didn’t stop with the dreaming. They visualized those dreams, and then brought them into actuality.

Power implies service, so concentrate all your thought on making your visions of great deeds come true.

pg. 144

That is the basis of all success in business: to focus on one thing and do that thing well.

You cannot divide your thought and do justice to any one of the different subjects you are thinking of. You’ve got to do one thing at a time.  Then finish it! Don’t half-do it, and leave it around to clutter up your desk and interfere with the next job. Dispose of it completely. Pass it along wherever it is to go. Be through with it and forget it! Then your mind will be clear to consider the next matter.

pg. 146

The standards of two men may differ, not especially because one is naturally more capable than the other, but because one is familiar with big things and the other is not.  One thought little thoughts, and the other thought big thoughts.

Big things are only little things put together.  

pg. 147

“It is encouraging to think of this when you are confronted by a big task. Remember that it is only a group of little tasks, any of which you can easily do. It is ignorance of this fact that makes men afraid to try.”

One of the most essential requisites in the accomplishment of any important work is patience. Not the patience that sits and folds its hands and waits— Micawber like—for something to turn up. But the patience that never jeopardizes or upsets a plan by forcing it too soon. The man who possesses that kind of patience can always find plenty to do in the meantime.

All that mankind has done, thought, gained or been—it is lying in matchless preservation in the pages of books.

Nothing pays better interest than judicious reading. The man who invests in more knowledge of his business than he needs to hold his job, is acquiring capital with which to get a better job.

pg. 148

You’d be surprised at how much more work you can get through by carefully planning it, and then taking each bit in order and disposing of it before starting on the next.

Another thing—once started at work, don’t let down. Keep on going until it is time to quit. You know how much power it takes to start an auto that is standing motionless. But when you get it going, you can run along in high at a fraction of the expenditure of gas. It is the same way with your mind. We are all mentally lazy. We hate to start using our minds. Once started, though, it is easy to keep along on high, if only we won’t let down. For the moment we let down, we have that starting to do all over again. You can accomplish ten times as much, with far less effort or fatigue, if you will keep right on steadily instead of starting and stopping, and starting and stopping again.

Volumes have been written about personal efficiency, and general efficiency, and every other kind of efficiency in business. But boiled down, it all comes to this:
1—Know what you want.
2—Analyze the thing you’ve got to do to get it.
3—Plan your work ahead.
4—Do one thing at a time.
5—Finish that one thing and send it on its way before starting the next.
6—Once started, KEEP GOING!

And when you come to some problem that “stumps” you, give your subconscious mind a chance.

Several years ago, I heard a successful executive tell a group of young men how he did his work, and included in the talk was the advice to prepare at the close of each day’s business, a list of the ten most important things for the next day. To this I would add: Run them over in the mind just before going to sleep, not thoughtfully, or with elaboration of detail, but with the sure knowledge that the deeper centers of the mind are capable of viewing them constructively even though conscious attention is surrendered in sleep.

pg. 151

The world loves a leader.  To install confidence in others, a leader must have utter confidence in himself.  

That which makes men invincible is the Consciousness of their own Power. They put no limit upon their own capacities — therefore they have no limit.  We draw to ourselves unlimited power or limit ourselves to humble positions according to our own beliefs.

pg. 152

The more you call upon and use your subconscious mind, the greater becomes its conductivity in passing along to you the infinite resources of Universal Mind.

pg. 152-153

The greatest of all success secrets is initiative.  Drive yourself. Force yourself. It is the dreamer, the man with imagination, who has made the world move.  Initiative, plus imagination, will take you anywhere.  

pg. 153

Parents foolishly try to discourage imagination in their children, when all it needs is proper guidance. For imagination forms the world from which their future will take its shape. Restrain the one and you constrict the other. Develop the one in the right way, and there is no limit to the other.

pg. 154

"Whatsoever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye RECEIVE it."

pg. 154-155

The thing that counts most for success is CREATIVE IMAGINATION.  You have that gift. Use it! Make every thought, every fact, that comes into your mind pay you a profit. Make it work and produce for you. Think of things—not as they are but as they MIGHT be. Make them real, live and interesting. Don’t merely dream—but CREATE! Then use your imagination to make that CREATION of advantage to mankind—and, incidentally, yourself.

pg. 157-158

About happiness:

“The Kingdom of Heaven is within you” to me that means that Heaven is here and now. That if we want any happiness from it we’ve got to get it as we go along. I’ve never been much of a believer in accepting these promissory notes for happiness. Every time one of them falls due, you find you just have to renew it for another six months or a year, until one of these days you wake up and find that the bank has busted and all your notes are not worth the paper they are written on.

With happiness, if you take it as you go along, you get it in its entirety. But if you keep putting off the day when you shall enjoy it—if you keep taking promissory notes for happiness—every day will mean one day less of it that you will have. Yet the cost is just the same.

The purpose of existence is GROWTH. You can’t grow spiritually or mentally without happiness. By Happiness I mean the everyday enjoyment of everyday people. I mean love and laughter and honest amusement. Every one of us is entitled to it. Every one of us can have it—if he has the WILL and the ENERGY to get out and get it for himself.

pg. 158

Thoughts are things; thoughts are energy; thoughts are magnets which attract to us the very things which we think.

pg. 159

Concentrate and think upon things that you want; not on things which you ought not to have.


Prosperity is not limited to time or to place. It manifests when and where there is consciousness to establish it. It is attracted to the consciousness that is free from worry, strain, and tension.

Think of the RESULTS you are after—not of the difficulties in the way. Mind will find the way. It is merely up to you to choose the goal, and then keep your thought steadfast until that goal is won.

pg. 160

The thing that counts is not the amount of your balance at the Bank, but what others THINK of you, the IMAGE you have created in your own and in others minds.

pg. 161

About the body and health:

The great men of the world have been well men, strong men. Sickness and hesitancy go hand in hand. Sickness means weakness, querulous ness, lack of faith, and lack of confidence in oneself and in others.

pg. 162-165

About the body and health:

Any man can set before his mind’s eye the image of the figure he himself would like to be, and then breathe the breath of life into it merely by keeping that image before his subconscious mind as the model on which to do its daily building.

For health and strength are natural. It is ill health and weakness that are unnatural. Your body was meant to be lithe, supple, muscular, and full of red-blooded energy and vitality. A clear brain, a powerful heart, a massive chest, wrists and arms of steel—all these were meant for you—all these you can have if you will but know, and feel, and think aright.

Just take stock of yourself for a moment. Are your muscles tough, springy and full of vim? Do they do all you ask of them—and then beg for more? Can you eat a good meal—and forget it?

If you can’t, it’s your own fault. You can have a body alive with vitality, a skin smooth and fine of texture, muscles supple and virile. You can be the man you have always dreamed of being, without arduous dieting, without tiresome series of exercises, merely by following the simple rules herein laid down.

For what is it that builds up the muscles, puts energy and vitality into your system, gives you the pep and vigor of youth? Is it exercise? Then why is it that so many day laborers are poor, weak, anemic creatures, forced to lay off from one to three months every year on account of sickness? They get plenty of exercise and fresh air. Why is it that so many athletes die of tuberculosis or of weak hearts? They get the most scientific exercise year in and year out.

“In gymnasium work at the University of Pennsylvania we try to place our young men in sports which they will enjoy, and thus get a physical stimulation from relaxed play.”

Is it diet? Then why is it that so many people you know, who have been dieting for years, are still such poor, flabby creatures? Doesn’t it always work, or is it merely a matter of guess-work-and those were the cases where no one happened to guess right? Why is it that doctors disagree so on what is the correct diet?

Then what is right? Is it the combination of diet and exercise? But surely the patients in sanitariums and similar institutions would have every chance to get just the right combination, yet how often you see them come out little, if any, better off than when they went in.

No. None of these is the answer. As a matter of fact, the principal good of either diet or exercise is that it keeps before the patient’s mind the RESULT he is working for, and in that way tends to impress it upon his subconscious mind. It is MIND that achieves them—not the movements you go through or the particular kind of food you eat.

Understand, I don’t ask you to stop exercising. A reasonable amount of light, pleasant exercise is good for you mentally and physically. It develops your will power. It helps to impress upon your subconscious mind the image you want to see realized in your body. And it takes your mind off your troubles and worries, centering your thoughts instead upon your desires; just where your thoughts should always be.

Outdoor exercise, tennis, horseback, swimming—any sort of active game— is the best rest there is for a tired mind. For mental tiredness comes from a too steady contemplation of ones problems. And anything that will take ones mind completely off them, and give the subconscious time to work out the solution, is good. That is why it so often happens that you go back to your work after a day of play—not merely refreshed, but with so clear a mind that the problems, which before seemed insurmountable are but as child’s play to you.

You who envy the rosy cheek and sparkling eye of youth, who awake in the morning weary and un-refreshed, who go to your daily tasks with fagged brain and heavy tread—just remember that Perfect Youth or Perfect Health is merely a state of mind.

There is only one thing that puts muscles on your bones. There is only one thing that keeps your organs functioning with precision and regularity. There is only one thing that builds for you a perfect body. That one thing is your subconscious mind.  Every cell and tissue, every bone and sinew, every organ and muscle in your entire body is subject to the control of your subconscious mind. As it directs, so they build or function.

True, that subconscious mind accepts suggestions from your conscious mind. Hold before it the thought that the exercise you are taking is building muscle upon your arms or shoulders, and your subconscious mind will fall in readily with the suggestion and strengthen those muscles. Hold before it the thought that some particular food gives you unusual energy and “pep,” and the subconscious mind will be entirely agreeable to producing the added vigor.

But have you ever noticed how some sudden joy (which is entirely a mental state) energizes and revitalizes you—more than all the exercise or all the tonics you can take? Have you ever noticed how martial music will relieve the fatigue of marching men? Have you ever noticed how sorrow (which is entirely a mental state) will depress and devitalize you, regardless of any amount of exercise or health foods you may take?

Choose what you will be! Your responsibility is to think, speak, act the true inner self. Your privilege is to show forth in this self, the fullness of peace and plenty. Keep steadfastly in mind the idea of yourself that you want to see realized. Your daily, hourly, and continual idea of yourself, your life, your affairs, your world, and your associates, determines the harvest, the showing forth. Look steadfastly to your highest ideal of self, and your steadfast and lofty ideal will draw forth blessing and prosperity not only upon you, but also upon all who know you.

For mind is the only creator, and thought is the only energy. All that counts is the image of your body that you are holding in your thought.

pg. 166

About age:

Youth is not a matter of time. It is a mental state. You can be just as brisk, just as active, just as light-hearted now as you were ten or twenty years ago. Genuine youth is just a perfect state of health. You can have that health, and the boundless energy and capacity for work or enjoyment that go with it.

pg. 169

No matter how many years have passed since you were born, you are only eleven months old today! Your body is constantly renewing itself.  There is not a cell in your body, not a muscle or tissue, not a bone, that is more than eleven months old! Why then should you feel age? Why should you be any less spry, any less cheerful, than these youngsters around you that you have been envying?  The answer is that you need not—if you will but realize your YOUTHFULNESS.

pg. 170

Do you know what is responsible for the whole difference between Youth and Age? Just one thing. YOUTH LOOKS FORWARD ALWAYS TO SOMETHING BETTER. Age looks backward and sighs over its “lost” youth.

pg. 171

There is no physiological reason why a man should die.  The human body possesses inherent capacity to renew and continue itself and its functions, indefinitely!

Your body wears out? Of course it does—just as all material things do. But with this difference your body is being renewed just as fast as it wears out! Have you damaged some part of it? Don’t worry. Down inside you is a chemical laboratory, which can make new parts just as good or better than the old. Up in your subconscious mind is a Master Chemist with all the formulas of Universal Mind to draw upon, who can keep that chemical laboratory of yours making new parts just as fast as you can wear out the old.

pg. 172

Death is merely teh absence of life, just as darkness is merely the absence of light.  Keep that life surging -- strongly.

pg. 173

You are only as old as your mind. 

pg. 174

You can grow old at 30. You can be young at 90. It is up to you. Which do you choose?  If you choose youth, then start this minute renewing your youth. Find a picture—or, better still, a statuette—of the man you would like to be, the form you would like to have. Keep it in your room. When you go to bed at night, visualize it in your mind’s eye—hold it in your thought as YOU—as the man YOU ARE GOING TO BE!

pg. 177

Medicine itself cannot cure disease.  Nature is the only healer.  Drugs can give you temporary relief from pain, yes.  They can cleanse, yes.  But as for curing anything, there is no drug that can do it.  

pg. 178-179

[Text talks about the placebo effect.]

pg. 180

Mind is the Healer. Drugs can sometimes make its work easier by removing obstructions, by killing off parasites. But the regular use of drugs is far more likely to harm than to heal.

pg. 181

How to facilitate healing: 

It is by scotching disease at its very source. It is by getting rid of artificially created unwholesome conditions, getting back to natural wholesome conditions.

How were these wonderful results [of stamping diseases out of existence] brought about? Not through drugs—but by cleaning up! Cleaning out swamps and filth. Purifying water. Building drainage systems. Making everything round about as clean and wholesome as Nature herself.  Cleanliness—Purity—Sunshine!

pg. 182

The Chinese have long had the right idea; they pay their physicians to keep them well, not to cure them of sickness.  

pg. 183

Medical schools teach students practical applications of the principle of mental influence at the bedside of their patients. A brisk and cheery manner, a hopeful countenance, a supremely assured and confident demeanor—these things have always been regarded by the medical profession as but second in importance to sanitation and material remedies.

pg. 184

Things to do to help heal:
  - Install hope, confidence and mental effort.  
  - Cheerful presence.
  - A well-timed jes may break up a congestion; 
    a pun may add pungency to the sharpest stimulant.

Psychotherapy: The healing of bodily disease by mental influence.  

pg. 185

We have been educated in a medical age to think that most diseases are infectious or contagious. So the mere sight of a diseased person makes most of us withdraw into ourselves like a turtle within his shell. We fear we shall catch it—when one of the great dangers of disease is that very fear of it.

“Anyone can do it,” said Houdini. “The important thing is to BELIEVE THAT YOU ARE SAFE.”

Did you ever hurt a limb, or a finger, so that you thought you couldn’t move it? And then, under the stress of some sudden emotion, forget all about the hurt and presently wake to find yourself using the finger or the limb just as readily and as painlessly as though there had never been anything wrong with it?

pg. 186

So it is with many people today in every walk of life. They have become so wedded to their ailments; they “enjoy poor health” so thoroughly, that they are secretly a bit proud of it. Take away their complaints and they would be lost without them.

What is it that affects the cures? Two things—Desire and Faith.

You must have the sincere desire first. That is prayer. Then the faith—the kind of faith that Jesus meant when he said—“Whatsoever ye ask for when ye pray, believe that ye receive it, and ye shall have it.” Mind you, not “believe ye are going to receive it.” “Believe that ye receive it”—now—this very minute. Know that the REAL you, the image of you held in Universal Mind—in short, the Truth concerning every organ in your body—is perfect. “Know the Truth.” Believe that you HAVE this perfect image. On the day that you can truly believe this—carry this sincere conviction to your subconscious mind—on that day you WILL BE perfect

pg. 187

The chronicles of every religion are full of just such miracles [of healing]. And the reason for them is the same in every case— prayer and faith. Given these, no healing is impossible.

pg. 191

In proper, healthy or normal conditions of life, the objective mind and the subjective mind act in perfect harmony with each other. When this is the case, healthy and happy conditions always prevail. But these two minds are not always permitted to act in perfect harmony with each other; this brings mental disturbances; excites physical wrongs, functional and organic diseases.

When sickness or pain assails you, deny it! Cling steadfastly to the one idea that covers all—that Universal Mind made your every organ perfect; that the only image of each organ now in Universa1 Mind is this perfect image; and that this perfect idea is endowed with resources sufficient to meet any need.

pg. 192

When anything seems wrong with the functioning of your body, the place to investigate is your subconscious mind.

pg. 195

Bear this in mind when anyone tells you that certain foods are not good for you. You can eat what you like, if you do it in moderation. Just remember—no matter what you may eat—if you relish it, if you BELIEVE it to be good for you, it will be good for you!

The moment any symptom of illness shows in your body, vigorously deny its existence. Say to yourself—“The only image of my body that Mind knows is a perfect, vigorous, healthy image. And that is the only image I am going to build on.” Then forget the image of disease. It is only an illusion, and can be dispelled like any other illusion. Keep in your mind’s eye the image of perfect health, of vigorous, boundless vitality.

pg. 197

It is law that every thought tends to realize itself subconsciously in the body.

The subconscious does not reason and judge.  It only receives and obeys.  

##############################################################################
