##############################################################################
Notes on the book: "Ask and It Is Given" by Esther and Jerry Hicks
##############################################################################

pg. xxiii

Question: How can we more effectively achieve our goals?
Answer channeled being Theo:   Meditation and affirmations.

pg. xxiv

Question: What do you mean by meditation?
Answer channeled being Theo:   Sit in a quiet room.  Wear comfortable clothing, and focus on your breathing.  As your mind wanders, and it will, release the thought and focus upon your breathing.  It would be good for you to do it together.  It will be more powerful.  

Question: Could you give us an affirmation that would be valuable to use?
Answer channeled being Theo:   "I, [say your name], see and draw to me, through divine love, those Beings who seek enlightenment through my process.  The sharing will elevate us both now."

pg. xxvi

Abraham is not a singular consciousness as you feel that you are in your singular bodies.  Abraham is a Collective Consciousness.  There is a Non-Physical Stream of Consciousness, and as one of you asks a question, there are many, many oints of consciousness that are funneling through what feels to be the one perspective (because there is, in this case, one human, Esther, who is interpreting or articulating it) so it appears singular to you.  We are multidimensional and multifaceted and certainly multi-consciousness.

pg. xxix

It's not Abraham's work to decide what we should want, but it IS their work to assist us in achieving whatever we desire.  In Abraham's words: Abraham is not about guiding anyone toward or away from anything.  We want you to make all your decisions about your desires.  Our only desire for you is that you descover the way to ACHIEVE your desires.  

pg. 3

Abraham speaks from the Non-Physical dimension.  Of course, you must understand that you also have come forth from the Non-Physical dimension.  The physical world has come forth from the projection of the Non-Physical.  In fact, you and your physical world are extensions of the Non-Physical Source Energy.  

In this Non-Physical realm, we do not use words, for we do not require language.  We communicate perfectly with one another; our Non-Physical language is one of vibration, and our Non-Physical communities, or families, are those of intention.  In other words, we radiate that which we are, vibrationally, and others of like intent assemble.  This is also true of your physical world, although most of you have forgotten that this is so.  

Abraham is a family of Non-Physical Beings naturally assembled by our powerful intention to remind you, our physical extensions, of the Laws of the Universe that govern all things.  It is Abraham's intention to help you remember that you are extensions of the Source Energy; that you are blessed, loved Beings; and that you have come forth into this physical time-space-reality to joyously create.  

pg. 4

It is our desire that you be pleased with where you are right now, in this moment -- no matter where you are.  It is our absolute promise to you that when you understand the power of feeling good now, no matter what, you will hold the key to the achievement of any state of being, any state of health, any state of wealth, or any state of anything that you desire.  

pg. 5

Your life is not ony about experience and knowledge, but it is also about fulfillment, satisfaction, and joy.  Your life is about the continuing expression of who you truly are.

All your power is in your 'now'.
Emotional Guidance System.
Vibrational set-point.

This book convers a series of processes that will assist you in reconnecting with the Non-Physical part of yourself, processes that will help you in achieving anything you desire.  

pg. 8

When you have achieved everything on your current list of things that you desire, there will be another list, even longer and more expansive to take its place.  
This book will assist you in returning you to:
- Your place of optimism
- Positive expectation
- Expanding joy

Remind you that there is nothign that you cannot be, do, or have.  

pg. 9

We came forth from the Source Energy, and 

Remember the joyous, powerful nature that is you, knowing that you would always remember the splendor of the Source from which you came, and knowing you could never lose your connection to that Source Energy.  

pg. 11

You are creator of your own reality.  

Have determination to guide your own life. 

pg. 12

By adapting to your society's attempts to make you fit in, and in your own attempt to find less trouble, you have unwittingly relinquished your most basic foundation: Your total and absolute freedom to create.  

You have not given up this freedom easily, however, and in fact, you can never truly release it, for it exists as the most basic tenet of your very being.  Still, in your attempt o release it for the sake of getting along, or in your hopeless resignation that you ahve no other choice than to give up your powerful right to choose, you have gone crossways to your natural current, and contrary to your very soul.


No one else can create in your own experience.

This book is about realignment with the Source Energy.
It teaches about realigning with external forces and Universal Laws.

pg. 13
You are eternal beingsin physical form.

pg. 14

Well-Being is the basis of this Universe.  Well-Being is the basis of All-That-Is.  It flows to you and through you.  You only have to allow it.  Like the air you breathe, you only have to open, relax, and draw it into your Being.  

This book is about consciously allowing your natural connections to the Stream of Well-Being.

pg. 15

The reason you have not already gotten what you desire is because you are holding yourself in a vibrational holding pattern that doesnot match the vibration of your desire.  

So now, the only thing you need to do is gently and gradually, piece by piece, release your resistant thoughts, which are the only disallowing factors involved.

pg. 16

Well-Being flows; Well-Being wants you!  Well-Being is lined up outside your door.  Everything you have ever desired, whether spoken or unspoken, has been transmitted by you vibrationally.  It has been heard and understood by Source and has been answered, and now you are going to FEEL your way into allowing yourself to receive it, one feeling at a time.

You are a physical extension of Source Energy.  
You and that which you call Source are the same.
You cannot be separated from Soruce.
Source is never separated from you.
When we think of you, we think of Source.
When we think of Source, we think of you.
Source never offers a thought that causes separation from you.


pg. 17
Source is always fully available to you.

From the Non-Physical, you created you; and now from the physical, you continue to create.  

pg. 18

When you are consciously aware of your own thoughts, and you are deliberately offering them, then you are the deliberate creator of your own reality.  

Desire is the beginning of all attraction.

As that 'asking' never ends; the 'answering' never ceases to flow.  And so, new perspectives will always be yours.  


pg. 18, 19

One you relax into the idea that you never cease to be, that new desires will be constantly born within you, that Source will never stop answering your desires, and that your expansion is, therefore eternal, then you may begin to relax if, in this moment, there is something that you desire that has not come yet to fruition.  

It is our desire that you become one who is happy with that which you are and with that which you have -- while at the same time being eager for more.  That is the optimal creative vantage point: To stand on the brink of what is coming, feeling eager, optimistic anticipation -- with no feeling of impatience, doubt, or unworthiness hindering the receiving of it -- that is the Science of Deliberate Creation at its best.

pg. 21

There is a current that runs through everything.  It exists throughout the Universe, and it exists throughout All-That-Is.  It is the basis fo the Universe, and it is the basis of your physical world.  [rluu: This may be the same as prana.]

As you begin to understand the basis of your world, and you begin to look for, or better said, FEEL FOR, your awareness of this source Energy that is the basis of all things, you will then understand everything about your own experience.  You will also more clearly understand the experiences of those around you.

pg. 22
You can feel whether you are allowing your full connection to the Soruce Energy or not.  In other words, the better you feel, the more you are allowing your connection; the worse you feel, the less you are allowing your connection.  

You are a Vibrational Being in a vibrational environment.  

pg. 23

Your emotions can be used as vibrational interpreters. 

pg. 25

Every thought vibrates.
Every thought radiates a signal.
Every thought attracts a matching signal back.

Law of Attraction: That which is like unto itself is drawn.

You must find ways of holding yourself consistently in vibrational harmony with those desires in order to receive their manifestation. 

pg. 26

Whatever you are giving your attention to causes you to emit a vibration, and the vibrations that you offer equal your asking, which equals your point of attraction.  If there is something you desire that you currently do not have, you need only to put your attention upon it, and, by the Law of Attraction, it will come to you, for as you think about this thing or experience that you desire, you offer a vibration, and then, by Law, that very thing or experience must come to you.  

However if there is something that you desire that you currently do not have, and you put your attention upon your current state of not having it, then Law of Attraction will continue to match that not-having-it vibration, so you will continue to not have that which you desire.  

The key to bringing something into your experience that you desire is to achieve vibrational harmony with what you desire.  The easiest way for you to achieve vibrational harmony with it is to imagine having it, pretend that it is already in your experience.  Flow your thoughts toward the enjoyment of the experience, and as you practice those thoughts and begin to consistently offer that vibration, you will then be in a place of allowing that into your experience.  

By paying attention to the way you feel, you can easily know if you are giving your attentiont o your desire or if you are giving it to the absence of your desire.  

pg. 27

You get what you think about, whether you want it or not.  

Worrying is using your imagination to create something you do not want. 

pg. 28

Difference in vibrational thinking:
Appreciation of something, versus, what you would like different.

pg. 29

Your desires and your beliefs must be a vibrational match in order for you to receive that which you desire.  

pg. 31

Rediscover the "Art of Allowing" the Well-Being.

pg. 33

Leading Edge of Thought.

A powerful Stream of Source Energy is now stretched out before you from which your individual, personal preferences will be received.  In other words, because of what so many have lived and are living, and because of the summoning power of so many of their desires, the Well-Being of your future experience is well in place.  And, in like manner, your current desires will, in turn, provide an Energy stream for future generations to benefit from.

pg. 34

The Stream of Well-Being flows even if you do not understand that it does, but when you consciously become aligned with it, your creative endeavors become so much more satisfying, for then you discover that there is absolutey nothing that youd desire that you cannot achieve.  

pg. 35

Without asking, youw will receive no answer.  Asking is a form of summoning.  

pg. 36

See yourself, right where you are now, as the beneficiary fo the powerful Stream of Well-Being.  Try to imagine that you are basking in the flow of this powerful stream.  Make an effort to feel yourself as the Leading-Edge beneficiary of this unlimited stream, and smile and try to accept that you are worthy of it.  

You (and how you feel) is all that is responsible for whether you let in your inheritance of Well-Being or not.  And while those around you may influence you, more or less, to allow or not allow that Stream, it is ultimately all up to you.  

pg. 39

You are a vibrational transmitter, and you are broadcasting your signal in every moment of your existence.  

pg. 40

Your world, present and future, is directly and specifically affected by the signal that you are now transmitting.  The personality that is You is really an eternal personality, but who you are right now, adn what you are thinking right now, is causing a focusing of Energy that is very powerful.  This Energy that you are focusing is the same Energy that creates worlds.  And it is, in this very moment, creating your world.  

You have a built-in, easy-to-understand guidance system within you, with indicators that help you understand the strength or power of your signal, as well as the direction of your focus.  This guidance system helps you understand the alignment of your chosen thought with the Energy Stream itself.  

Your feelings are the representative sof your guidance system.  In other words, the way you feel is your true indicator of your alignment with your Souce, and of your alignment with your own intentions -- both pre-birth and currently.  

pg. 40, 41

Your powerful beliefs were once gentle thoughts.  The only way to consciously deactive a thought is to activate another.  In other words, the only way to deliberately withdraw your attention from one thought is to give your attention to another.  

When you give your attention to anything, the vibration, at first, is not very strong, but if you continue to think about it, or speak about it, the vibration gets stronger.  So, with enough attention to any subject, it can become a dominant thoguht.  As you give more and more attention to any thought, and as you focus upon it and therefore practice the vibration of it -- the thought becomes an even bigger part of your vibration -- and you could now call this practiced thought a belief.  This thought that has now evolved into a belief will always be played out in your experience.  

pg. 41

The longer you think thoughts, the stronger they become.  

Harmony    with the Source ==> good feelings.
Disharmony with the Source ==> bad  feelings.

Your focus and attention to it invites it in.

Every thought that you give your attention to expands and becomes a bigger part of your vibrational mix.  

Since this is an attraction-based Universe, there is no such thing as exclusion.  Everything is about inclusion.  

pg. 43

Emotional reactions is a important sense.

pg. 44

Emotions are indicators of your point of attraction.  

Combine these to have full control over your point of attraction:
- Vibrational offering (thoughts).
- Emotional Guidance System.

Emotions are simply, purely, and only about our relationship with your Source.  

Emotions are indicators of your alignment with Source Energy.  


pg. 45

You are empowered Beings; you are utterly free to create.

Use emotion to feel your way back to Well-Being.

Harmony    (alignment)    feelings: Joy, love, sense of freedom, etc.
Disharmony (misalignment) feelings: Depression, fear, feelings of bondage.

In the same way that sculptors mold clay into the creation that pleases them, you create by molding Energy.  You mold it through your power of focus -- by thinking about things, remembering things, and imagining things.  You focus the Energy when you speak, when you write, when you listen, when you are silent, when you remember, and when you imagine -- you focus it through the projection of thought.  

Like the sculptors who, with time and pracctice, learn to mold the clay into the precise desired creation, you can learn to mold the Energy that creates worlds through teh focus of your own mind.  And, like the sculptors who, with their hands, feel their way as they recreate their vision, you will use your emotions to feel your way to Well-Being. 

pg. 47

The Creative Process:
1) (your work)     You ask.
2) (not your work) The answer is given.
3) (your work)     The answer, which has been given, must be received or allowed (you have to let it in).  "Art of Allowing".  Your vibrations must be in a match to let it in. [pg. 48].  The way you FEEL indicates your level of allowing or resisting.  [pg. 51].


pg. 48

Your "asking" is sometimes spoken with your words, but more often it emanates from you vibrationally as a constant stream of personally honed preferences, each building on the next, and each one respected and answered.  

pg. 49

The Creative Process is occurring whether you are consciously aware of it or not.  

Focus on what is wanted, not what is not wanted.
Your attention must be on it, not the lack of it.

pg. 51

The way you FEEL indicates your level of allowing or resisting.  

Although there is no source of sickness, you may offer thoughts that disallow the natural flow of your wellness, just as you may offer thoughts that disallow the natural flowof your abundance, although there is no source of poverty.  

It does not matter where you currently stand in relationship to anything you desire.  By paying attention to the way you feel, and by directing your thoughts to better-feeling thoughts, you can again achieve vibrational harmony with teh Well-Being that is natural to you.

Vibrational harmony:
When you appreciate something, you are a vibrational match to who you really are.
When you love someone, or yourself, you are a vibrational match to who you really are.


Vibrational disharmony:
When you find fault with yourself or another, you are, in that moment, offering a vibration that does not match who you really are, and the negative emotion you feel is your indicator that you have introduced a vibration of resistance and that you are no longer in teh state of allowing your pure connection between the physical you and the Non-Physical part of you.

pg. 51, 52

The Non-Physical part of you is your "Inner Being" or your "Source".  It is not important what you call that Source of Energy, or Life Force, but it IS important that you are consciously aware of when you are allowing a full connection to it and when you are restricting it in some way.  Your emotions are your constant indicators of your degree of allowing or resisting that connection.  

pg. 53

With practice you will be able to achieve a focused control of this Creative Energy, and become a joyous, deliberate creator.  

When focusing Creative Energy, there are two factors to consider:
1) Intensity and speed of the Energy.
This has to do with the amount of time you have spent considering your desire.  Your summoning power is much greater when you have spent a larger amount of time considering your desire.  After considering the desire for some time, you will have experienced contrast that helps you to become even more specific about it; and your desire summons it in an even more powerful way.  Thus the desire has gained power or speed.
2) Your level of allowing or resisting it.  
This step you can utilize how you feel to know your level of allowing or resisting.


pg. 54

It is not about controlling thoughts.  It is about guiding thoughts.

Reach for the way you would like to feel.  

Reaching for the way you would liek to feel is an easier way to hold your thoughts in vibrational alignment with that which you believe is good.

pg. 54, 55

Whenever you give your attention to a thought, those other thoughts that are in vibrational harmony with that original thought also rise and join the activated thought, making it a more pronounced, more powerful and more attractive thought.

pg. 55

Before you can effectively benefit from paying attention to your emotions, you must first accept that Well-Beingis the only Stream that flows.  You can allow or disallow this Stream, but when you allow it, you are well, when you disallow it, you are sick.  There is only a stream of wellness.  

pg. 56

A "belief" is only a practiced vibration.  And so, as you have life experience that matches those thoughts you were pondering, you conclude, "Yes, this is truth."  And while it may be accurate to call it "truth", we would prefer to call it attraction, or creation.  

Anything that you give your attention to will become your "truth".  The Law of Attraction says that it must.  Your life, and everyone else's too, is but a reflection of the predominance of your thoughts.  These is no exception to this.  

pg. 57
You are radio transmitters and receivers.  You live in a Vibrational Universe, and you are more Energy, Vibration, or Electricity than you realize.  

pg. 60

People sometimes try to control conditions when they disapprove of them.  They try to do this through personal force or strength, or gathering in groups to feel more power or control, but in doing so achieve vibrational alignment with unwanted things. And as more unwanted things manifest in their experience, they shore up their own belief (they "prove it" to themselves) that they were were right all along about how bad and invasive that unwante dthing was to begin with.  In other words, the more you defend your own beliefs, the more the Law of Attraction helps you live them out.  


About Truth:

With enough attention to anything, the essence of what you have been giving thought to will eventually become a physical manifestation.  And then as others observe your physical manifestation, through their attention to it, they help it to expand.  And then, in time, this manifestation, whether it is one that is wanted or not, is called "Truth".

There are many wonderful things that you are amking your Truths, and there are many not-so-wonderful things that you are making your Truths.  Deliberate Creation is about deliberately choosing those experiences you make your Truths.  

pg. 62

When you continue to focus upon any thought, it becomes increasingly easy to continue to focus upon it because the Law of Attraction is making more thoughts like it available to you.  And so, emotionally speaking, you are developing a mood or an attitude.  Vibrationally speaking, you are achieving a habitual vibrational groove, so to speak -- or a "set-point".


Moods as indicators of emotional set-points.

pg. 63

Your emotional set-points can be changed.  In other words, your habitual vibrational groove, in response to certain events, can be set to whatever your desire.  There is extreme value in deliberately achieving your own set-points.  Because, once you expect something, it will come.  The details may play out differently, but the vibrational essence will always be an exact match.


pg. 65

