##############################################################################
Notes on the book "Money, and The Law of Attraction" by Jerry and Esther Hicks
##############################################################################

Part 1: Pivoting and the Book of Positive Aspects.

pg. 6

When you give the credit or the blame to another [person] for your success or lack of it, you are powerless to make any change.  


Emotional Guidance System

pg. 7-8

You are the creator of your experience, and you do it through your thought, not your action.  The Law of Attraction is the basis of all creation here.  

pg. 9

The basis of everything is vibration and the Law of Attraction responds to those vibrations and, in essence, organizes them, bringing things of like vibrations together while holding those not of like vibrations apart. 

pg. 10

When you remember that you get the essence of what you think about -- and then you notice what you are getting -- you have the keys for Deliberate Creation.  

pg. 11

Your emotions, which really are the most powerful and important of your six physical vibrational interpreters, give you constant feedback about the harmonics of your current thoughts (vibrations) as they compare with the harmonics of your core vibrational state.  

The non-physical world is vibration.
The physical world that you know is vibration.
There is nothing that exists outside of this vibrational nature.
There is nothing that is not managed by the Law of Attraction.
Your understanding of vibration will help you to consciously bridge both worlds.

pg. 12

Your "not thriving" is only becuase you are offering a vibration that is different from the vibration of thriving.  You cannot feel poor (and vibrate poor) and thrive.  Abundance cannot find you unless you offer a vibration of abundance.  

If you are standing in the absence of something you want, you must find a way to feel the essence of it -- even before it comes -- or it cannot come.  

pg. 12-13

You must find a way of feeling the excitement or satisfaction of your currently unrealized dreams before those dreams can become your reality.  Find a way to deliberately imagine a scenario for the purpose of offering a vibration and for the purpose of the Law of Attraction matching your vibration with a real-life manifestation.  

pg. 14

In every moment, about every subject, you can focus positively or negatively, for in every particle of the Universe -- in every moment in time and beyond -- there is that which is wanted and the lack of what is wanted pulsing there for you to choose between.

pg. 14-15

Every subject is really two subjects:

  Abundance / Poverty (absence of abundance)
  Health / Illness (absence of health)
  Happiness / Sadness (abscence of happiness)
  Clarity / Confusion (absence of clarity)
  Energetic / Tired (absence of energy)
  Knowledge / Doubt (absence of knowledge)
  Interested / Bored (absence of interest)
  I can do that / I can't do that
  I want to buy that / I can't afford that
  I want to feel good / I don't feel good
  I want more money / I don't have enough money
  I want more money / I don't know how to get more money
  I want more money / That person is getting more money than his/her share
  I want to be slender / I am fat
  I want a new car / My car is old
  I want a lover / I don't have a lover

pg. 15

The exercises in the book are given to help orient yourself toward what is wanted, not to explain what already is.  You have to begin telling a different story if you want the Law of Attraction to bring you different things.  

When you catch yourself in the midddle of a statement that is contrary to what you want, stop and say, "Well, I clearly know what it is that I don't want.  What is it that I do want?"  Then deliberately and emphatically make your statement of desire.  This process is called "Pivoting".

pg. 16

When your vibration shifts, your point of attraction shifts, and, by the powerful Law of Attraction, your manifestation evidence or indicator must shift also.  You cannot talk consistently of the things you do want to experience in your life without the Universe delivering the essence of them to you.  

The "Process of Pivoting" is a conscious recognition that every subject is really two subjects, and then a deliberate speaking or thinking about the desired aspect of the subject.  

The way your are FEELING is the true indication of the creative direction of your thought-vibration.  The Law of Attraction is not responding to your words but to the vibration that is emanating from you.  

pg. 18

All people, circumstances, events, and situations are attracted to you by the power of the thoughts that you are thinking.  Once you understand that you are literally thinking or vibrating things into being, you may discover a new resolve within you to more deliberately direct your own thoughts. 

pg. 19

By choosing better-feeling thoughts, and by speaking more of what you do want and less of what you do not want, you will gently tune yourself to the vibrational frequency of your broader, wiser Inner Being.  

pg. 20

The better you feel, the more in alignment you are with your Source -- with who-you-really-are.

pg. 21

You can deliberately choose good-feeling thoughts.  

Whenever you experience a negative emotion (fear, doubt, frustration, loneliess, etc.), that feeling of negative emotion was the result of your thinking a thought that did not vibrate at a frequency that was in harmony with your Inner Being.  Through all of your life experiences (physical and non-physical), your Inner Being, or the Total you, has evolved to a place of knowing.  And so, whenever you are consciously focused upon a thought that does not harmonize with that which your Inner Being has come to know, the resultant feeling within you will be one of negative emotion. 

pg. 23

Process of Pivoting is: Deliberately looking for a more positive way -- a better-feeling way -- to approach whatever you are giving your attention to.  

Rather than saying, "I never have enough money," say instead, "I'm looking forward to having more money."

pg. 24

Anytime that you are feeling negative emotion, you are in a very good position to identify what it is that you are, in that moment, wanting, because never are you clearer about what you do want than when you are experiencing something that you do not want.  And then simply turn your attention to what you do want.  That is the Process of Pivoting.  

Whenever you tell a story of "how it is now", you are also telling the story of the future experience that you are creating right now.  You are basically perpetuating more of whatever story you are telling.  

pg. 26

Things that are coming into your experience are coming in response to your vibration.  Your vibration is offered because of the thoughts you are thinking, and you can tell by the way you feel what kinds of thoughts you are thinking.  Find good-feeling thoughts and good-feeling manifestations must follow. 

pg. 27

You live in a Universe that is based on "inclusion."  In other words, there is no such thing as "exclusion" in this "inclusion-based" universe.  

See your environment as a buffet of many choices, and make more deliberate choices about what you think about.  

It is only by being aware of the way you are FEELING while offering your owrds that you can be sure that you are, in fact, offering a vibration about what you do want, rather than what you do not want.  

pg. 28

Often we say we want something but we are still focused on the lack of it.  What helps is to answer the question of WHY you want it.  Once you ask WHY, your vibration vibration shifts or pivots in the direction of your desire.  You should think of not only WHAT you want, but WHY you want it.  

Whenever you consider HOW it will happen, or WHEN, or WHO will bring it to you, your vibration usually then shifts back toward the problem.  

pg. 31

If you can begin to orient your thoughts by steadily looking for things that cause you to feel good, you will begin to develop patterns of thoughts, or beliefs, that will help you create magnificent, good-feeling lives.  

Whatever thought you are focused upon (past memory, present, or future), that thought is active within you right now, and it is attracting other thoughts and ideas that are similar.  Not only do your thoughts attract other thoughts that are of a similar nature, but the longer you focus, the stronger the thoughts become and the more attraction power they amass.  

pg. 32

Upon some subjects, because you have been pulling on the negative rope longer, it is very easy for you to get off on a negative tangent.  In other words, it just takes a little negtive utterance from someone, a memory of something, or some suggestion that takes you into a negative tailspin right away.  

pg. 33

When the desire to feel good is effectivey active within you, a consistent inspiration toward good-feeling thoughts will be present, and you will find it easier adn easier to direct your thoughts in productive directions.  Your thoughts contain enormous creative, attractive power that you harness effectively only by consistently offering good-feeling thoughts.  When your thoughts constantly move back and forth between wanted and unwanted, pros and cons, pluses and minuses -- you lose the benefit of the momentum of your pure, positive thought.  


Creating a "Book of Positive Aspects":
Make a list of positive aspects about something (things that you like about it that make you feel good).  

Utilize this "Book of Positive Aspects" daily.  

pg. 35

Whenever you are defending or justifying or rationalizing or blaming anything or anyone, you remain in a place of negative attraction.  You cannot be focused upon negative aspects and positive aspects at the same time.  

The realization that something is not as you want it to be is an important first step, but once you have identified that, the faster you are able to turn your attention in the direction of a solution, the better, because a continuing exploration of the problem will prevent you from finding the solution.  The problem is a different vibrational frequency than the solution.  

pg. 36

If you attempt to make a big jump from a truly negative, unwanted topic immediately to a positive, delightful topic of something very much wanted, you will not be able to make the jump -- for there is too much vibrational disparity between the two thoughts.  A determination to gently, generally, and steadily lean more and more in the direction of wanted things is really the best way to approach your personal vibrational improvement.  

pg. 37

Focusing on the positive aspects is most powerful and effective when you first awaken in the morning, and right before you go to sleep.  


Sleep time is realignment-of-energies time.  


When you wake in the morning, look for positive aspects immediately:

  - How wonderful this bed feels.
  - How comforting the fabric feels.  
  - How good my body feels.  
  - How comfortable this pillow is.  
  - How refreshing the air is that I'm breathing.
  - How good it is to be alive!

pg. 39

Process to do when going to sleep:

1) Recall some of the most pleasant things that happened during the day.  

2) When you find those pleasant things, ponder it:

     - The thing I liked about that was ...
     - My favorite part of that was ...

3) Once you are feeling the positive effect of your thoughts, focus on your dominant intention right now: Getting a good night's sleep and awakening refreshed in the morning.  Say to yourself: 

     I'm going to sleep now; and while I am sleeping, because my
     thoughts will be inactive, attraction will stop and my physical
     body will be completely refreshed at every level.

5) Turn your attention to the immediate things around you, like the comfort of your bed, the softness of your pillow, the Well-Being of your moment.  

6) Softly set forth the intention: 

     I will sleep well, and I will awaken refreshed with another new,
     good-feeling, positive point of attraction.

7) Go to sleep.  


pg. 39-40

Process to do when just waking up:

1) Realize you are awake and have reemerged back into the physical.  

2) Lie there for a little while and bask in the comfort of your bed, and then offer a thought such as:

    "Today, no matter where I am going, no matter what I am doing, no
    matter who I'm doing it with, it is my dominant intent to look for
    things that feel good.  When I feel good, I am vibrating with my
    higher power.  When I feel good, I am in harmony with that hich I
    consider to be good.  When I feel good, I am in the mode of
    attracting that which will please me once it gets here.  And when
    I feel good -- I feel good!"

3) Lie in bed for two or three minutes and look for the positive aspects of our surroudnings.  

4) As we move into the day, we would begin to acknowledge more positive aspects, looking for reasons to feel good no matter what teh object of our attention is.

pg. 42

Any time you feel negative emotion, it means you are in the process of attracting something unwanted.  This is important information, and you should use it to assist you in guiding your thoughts in a more productive and beneficial direction.  

pg. 44

You get more and more of what you are thinking about -- whether you want it or not.  

pg. 46

We encourage you to begin each day with the statement:
"Today -- no matter where I go, no matter what I am doing, and no matter who I am doing it with -- it is my dominant intent to look for what I am wanting to see."

pg. 47

Look for things that feel good when you focus on them.  

pg. 50

Each night say:
"Tonight, as I sleep, all attraction will stop, which means tomorrow I will have a new beginning; and tomorrow I will look for what I am wanting to see because I want to feel good -- because feeling good is the most important thing.  


pg. 51

Now, it is not likely that just because you remain happy, others will immediately join you in your happiness.  In fact, when there is a great disparity between the way you are feeling and the way others are feeling, you will have a difficult time relating to one another; but in time, if you maintain your positive vibrational stance, they will either join you in your positive place, or they will vibrate right out of your experience.  They only way unhappy people can stay in your experience is by your continuing attention to them.  


When you sympathize with others, you shoudl sympathize with teh best-feeling aspects of others that you can find; and, in doing so, you may influence them to an improved condition also.  

pg. 53

The only way you can be happy is to decide to be happy.  When you take upon yourself the responsibility of another's happiness, you are attempting the impossible and you are setting youself up for a great deal of personal discord.  

pg. 53-55

[These pages contain information about how to handle relationship break-ups (from a vibrational perspective).]

pg. 55

You have the ability to pivot under any and all conditions.  It does not matter how negative something seems -- you have the ability to give your attention to the positive aspects of it.  The only things that get in your way are some old habits, or maybe some strong influences from others.  

pg. 57

As you hold to your intention to look for evidence of Well-Being and thriving and success and happiness, you will tune yourself to the vibrations of those things, and so those kinds of good-feeling experiences will dominate your life.  


Part 2: Attracting Money and Manifesting Abundance. 

pg. 62

The subject of money is really two subjects:
1) Money, plenty of money, the feeling of freedom and ease that plenty of money can provide.
2) The absence of money, not nearly enough money, the feeling of fear and disappointment that the thought of absence of money induces.  

pg. 64

First find your vibrational balance.  

If you will begin by identifying how you want to feel, or be, and let your inspiration to accumulate or to do come fromt aht centered place, then not only will you maintain your balance, but you will now enjoy the things you gather and the things that you do.  

pg. 65

Our message is not for you to stop wanting, having, or doing.  Our message is for you to want and accumulate and do from your place of feeling good. 


Neither money nor poverty makes joy/happiness.

pg. 66

Most people give the majority fo their attention to whatever is happening in their experience right now -- which means if the results please them, they feel good, but if the results do not please them, they feel bad.  But that is really going about life the hard way.  If you only have the ability to see what is, then things cannot improve.  You must fin da way to look optimistically forward in order to achieve any improvement in your experience.  

When you learn how to deliberately focus your thoughts toward good-feeling things, it is not difficult to find happiness and maintain it even before your goal has been accomplished.  The feeling of struggle you were describing happens because of the continual comparison of where you are right now in relationship to the goal you are reaching for.  When you constantly take score, noticing the distance that still needs to be traveled, you amplify the distance, the task, the effort; and that is why it feels like such an uphill struggle.  

When you care about how you feel, and so choose thoughts on the basis of how they feel, you then develop patterns of thought that are more forward looking.  And as the Law of Attraction then responds to those better-feeling thoughts, you get more pleasing results.  Struggle, struggle, struggle never leads to a happy ending.  It defies Law.  "When I get there, then I'll be happy" is not a productive mind-set because unless you are happy, you cannot get there.  When you decide to first be happy -- then you will get there.  


pg. 67

Do you have a positive or negative attitude about money?  How do you feel when you sit to pay your bills?  Many people, without realizing it, the majority of their thoughts about money have been on the 'not-enough' side of the subject rather than on the 'abundant' side of the subject.

pg. 68

The wallet game is described:

Keep $100 in your wallet and deliberately notice how many things you could exchange this money for: "I could purchase that.  I could do that."  If you mentalyl spend that $100 one thousand times, you have vibrationally spent $100,000.  That sort of positive focus will dramatically change your vibrational balance about money.  This vibrational spending process will cause you to feel differently about money; and when that happens, your point of attraction will shift -- and more money must flow into your experience.  It is Law.  

You want to FEEL your prosperity.  Utilize it effectively to help you notice how good things are now, in the moment.  Becuase in your acknowledgement of your prosperous now, your properity must become more.  

Mentally spend your money and imagine an improved lifestyle.  Deliberately conjure a feeling of freedom by imagining what it would feel like to have a large amount of money at your disposal.  

pg. 69

The powerful feeling outweighs any action that is offered.  Any action that is offered from a place of lack is always counterproductive.  

pg. 70

An improved feeling of prosperity, even if your current reality does not justify the feeling, will always bring more prosperity to you.  Paying attention to the way you feel about money is a much more productive activity than noticing how others are doing.  


Imbalance:

  - If you want more money but doubt you can achieve it, then you are
    not in balance.

  - If you want more money but you believe there is something wrong in
    having money, then you are not in balance.

  - If you want more money and you are angry at those who have more
    money, then you are not in balance.

  - If you want more money and you feel you are not worthy, then you
    are not in balance.

  - When you are feeling those emotions of inadequancy, insecurity,
    jealousy, injustice, anger, and so on, your Emotioanl Gidance
    System is letting you know that you are out of alignment with your
    own desire.


pg. 71

Make statements such as:

"I want to be the best that I can be.  I want to do and have and live in a way that is in harmony with my idea of the greatest goodness.  I want to harmonize physically here in this body with that which I believe to be the best, or the good way, of life."

pg. 73

Vibrational discord is always the reason for negative emotion.  And negative emotion is always guidance to help you redirect your thoughts to find vibrational alignmnet with who-you-really-are and with your current desires.  

pg. 77

When you see others excelling in their attraction of money and you feel negative emotion about it, that is your signal that your current thought is not allowing the abundance that you desire into your experience.  When you find yourself critical of the way anyone has attracted or is using money, you are pushing money away from yourself.  But when you realize that what others do with money has nothing to do with you, and that your primary work is to think and speak and do what feels good to you, then you will be in alignment, not only about the subject of money, but about every important subject in your physical experience.  

pg. 78

Your action is responsible for but a minuscule part of what comes to you.  Your thoughts and words (words are thoughts articulated) are the reason your life unfolds as it does.  

The most valuable skill that you could ever develop is the skill of directing your thoughts toward what you want -- to be adept at quickly evaluating all situations and then quickly coming to the conclusion of what you most want -- and then giving your undivided attention to that.  There is a tremendous skill in directing your own thoughts that will yield results that cannot be compared with results that mere action can provide.  

pg. 79

Your knowledge in all things comes only through life experience, but your life experience comes as a result of the thoughts that you are thinking.  So even though you may have wanted something for a very long time, if your thoughts have been upon the absence of it, then it could not come to you.  And so, from your personal experience, you come to the conclusion that it is not possible, or that it is a struggle.  in other words, you come to many valid conclusions about htings being hard when you have led a difficult life.  

It is our desire to help you understand what is really at the heart of that self-created struggle.  We want to help you begin from a different premise and understand the Laws at the basis of all things.  A new understanding of the Laws of the Universe and a willingness to begin telling a different story will give you different results, and those different results will then give you different beliefs or knowledge.  

You are the only one who can evaluate your effectiveness.  No one else has the ability to discern where you stand relative to where you are wanting to be, and nobody else can decide where you should be -- only you.  

pg. 80

Expecting results is the most productive: 
Expecting > Hoping > Doubting

pg. 85

Many believe that they must work hard, struggle, pay a price, and feel pain, and that they will then be rewarded for their struggle -- but that is not consistent with the Laws of the Universe: YOU CANNOT FIND A HAPPY ENDING TO AN UNHAPPY JOURNEY.  


If you believe that you must work hard in order to deserve the money that comes to you, then money cannot come to you unless you do work hard.  But the money that comes in response to physical action is very small in comparison with what comes through alignment of thought.  

pg. 86

Financial success, or any other kind of success, does not require hard work or action, but it does require alignment of thought.  You simply cannot offer negative thought about things that you desire and then make up for it with action or hard work.  When you learn to direct your own thoughts, you will discover the true leverage of Energy alignment.  


pg. 86-88

Is spending money comfortable?  

A belief in shortage will never resonate with your broader knowing, because there is no shortage.  

[More info in the book text.]

pg. 89

You can easily change your vibrational point of attraction by visualizing the lifestyle you desire and holding your attention upon those images until you begin to feel relief, which will indicate that a true vibrational shift has occurred.  

pg. 90

Do not let others set the standards about how much money you should have -- or about what you should do with it.  You are the only one who could ever accurately define that.  Come into alignment with who-you-really-are and allow the things that life has helped you to know that you want to flow into your experience.  

pg. 92

Some say that you should not want money at all because the desire for money is materialistic and not spiritual.  But remember you are here in this very physical world where spirit has materialized.  All of the magnificent phsyical things that are surrounding you are Spiritual in nature.  

[rluu: All physical things are the combination of Purusha/Prakriti, or Heaven/Earth.  There are elements of both. ]


pg. 93-94

When you focus upon lack in an attitude of complaining, you establish a vibrational point of attraction tht then gives you access only to more thoughts of complaint whether you are focused in your present, your past, or your future.

pg. 94-95

----------------------
An example of my "New" story about money:

  I like the idea that money is as available as the air I breathe.  I like the idea of breathing in and breathing out more money.  I is fun to imagine a lot of money flowing to me.  I can see how my feeling about money affects the money that comes to me.  I am happy to understand that with practice I can control my attitude about money, or about anything.  I notice that the more I tell my story of abundance, the better I feel.

  I like knowing that I am the creator of my own reality and that the money that flows into my experience is directly related to my thoughts.  I like knowing that I can adjust the amount of money that I receive by adjusting my thoughts.  

  Now that I understand the formula for creating; now that I understand that I do get the essence of what I think about; and most important, now that I understand that I can tell by the way I am feeling whether I am focused upon money or lack of money, I feel confident that in time, I will align my thoughts with abundance -- and money will flow powerfully into my experience.  

  I understand that the people around me hold many different perspectives about money, wealth, spending, saving, philanthropy, giving money, receiving money, earning money, and so forth, and that it is no necessary for me to understand their opinions or experiences.  I am relieved to know that I do not have to sort all of that out.  It is very nice to know that my only work is to align my own thoughts about money with my own desires about money, and that whenever I am feeling good, I have found that alignment.  

  I like knowing that it is alright for me to occasionally feel negative emotion regarding money.  But it is my intention to quickly direct my thoughts in better-feeling directions, for it is logical to me that thoguhts that feel good when I think them will bring positive results.  

  I understand that money will not necessarily manifest instantly in my experience with the changing of my thinking, but I do expect to see steady improvement as a result of my deliberate effort to think better-feeling thoughts.  The first evidence of my alignment with money wiil be my improved feeling, my improved mood, and my improved attitude -- and then real changes in my financial situation will be soon to follow.  I am certain about that.  

  I am aware of the absolute correlation between what I have been thinking and the feeling about money and what is actually happening in mylife experience.  I can see the evidence of the law of Attraction's absolute and unerring response to my thought, and I look forward to more evidence in response to my improved thoughts.  

  I can feel a powerful leveraging of Energy in being more deliberate about my thoughts.  I believe, at many levels, that I have always known this, and it feels good to return to my core beliefs about my power and value and worthiness.  

  I am living a very abundant life, and it feels so good to realize that whatever this life experience causes me to desire -- I can achieve that.  I love knowing that I am unlimited.  

  I feel tremendous relief in recognizing that I do not have to wait for the money or the things to materialize before I can feel better.  And I now understand that when I do feel better, the things and experiences and money that I want must come.  

  As easily as air flows in and out of my being - so it is with money.  My desires draw it in, and my ease of thought lets it flow out.  In and out.  In and out.  Ever flowing.  Always easy.  Whatever I desire, whenever I desire, as much as I desire -- in and out.  

----------------------

Part 3: Maintaining My Physical Well-Being.

pg. 99

[rluu: TODO: Continue taking notes starting from here (this page).]


##############################################################################
