##############################################################################
Notes on "The Beginning of Masonry" by Frank C. Higgins
##############################################################################


pg. 11

Freemasonry possess the most stupendous and we-inspiring secret ever imparted by revelation of Deity to mankind.  

pg. 12

It was the mystery of the ancient Magi, of the founders of the faiths of Babylonia and Asyria, of Egypt and Phenicia, of Greece and Rome, of the Druids of Gaul, the Mithraics of Persia, the patriarchs of the Jews and the sponsors of Christianity.  

pg. 13

There can be no successful Masonic reasearch that is not also biblical research.


Three degrees of the Blue Lodge.
Mark Master and Royal Arch degrees.

pg. 14

"Theosophy" simply means "God-Wisdom" or "God's Truth".

pg. 15-16

The original philosophy is really the foundation of what Theosophists call the "Secret Doctrine," and the initiatory ceremonies by which men were inducted into its enlightening presence were that we now call the "Ancient Mysteries," many of the symbols of which still survive in the Masonic Lodge.  

Egypt, Assyria, Babylonia, Persia, and India are every day yielding up long buried secrets, which throw a bright noonday glare upon the real derivations and significances of hitherto cabalistic dogmas; which are not proved untrue, but truer in altered senses than were ever dreamed of.  

Theosophy is based upon the study fo the "Secret Doctrine" derived by modern students from Indian (Hindu) sources direct.  Masonry is what is left, after centuries of vicissitude, of its western development.  It was "the science of the ancient world" expressed.  

pg. 16-17

Albert Pike.  Bro. Pike says of the reputed founded of hte so-called Hermetic School:

"From the bosom of Egypt sprang a man of consummate wisdom, initiated in the secret knowledge of India, of Persia, and of Ethiopia, named Thoth of Phtha by his compatriots, Taaut by the Phenicians and Hermes Trismegistus (Thrice Great hermes) by the Greeks.  In Egypt he instituted hieroglyphics; he selected a certain number of persons, whom he judged fitted to be the depositaries of his secrets, of only such as were capable of attaining the throne and the first offices in the mysteries, he united them in a body, created them 'priests of the living God', instructed them in the sciences and arts, especially astronomy, music (which he is said to have invented), arithmetic, and work in metals, etc.  Under him, Egypt paid homage to seven principal deities" (the seven planets).

pg. 17

The name "Mercury", or "Mercurius", was the Latin translation of the Greek Hermes.  Like almost all astronomical names of both Greece and Rome, it is a corruption of the Syrian Mar Kurios ("Son of the Lord" -- Sun), which in turn is a literal translation of ChR-Mes (Horus-Moses, "the Son of Horus").  The custom fo referring all inspirational writings to their spiritual source was the cause of the attribution to the celestial Hermes of a stupendous volume of ancient literature.  He was called "the Author of 20,000 volumes," just as Nebo -- precisely the same planet Mercury as known 2,000 years before to the Babylonians -- were attributed all the sacred writings of their priests. 

pg. 18

"Wisdom of Nabu" refers to knowledge coming from "Nebo" or "Hermes" which is really the planet Mercury.  


The cube was a sacred emblem of the Lydian Kubele, known to the Romans in after ages as Ceres or Cybele; hence, as some aver, the derivation of the word 'Cube.'.  Mercury, Apollo, Neptune, and Hercules were worshiped under the form of a square stone; while a large black stone was the emblem of Buddha among the Hindoos, of Manah Theus-Ceres in Arabia, and of Odin in Scandinavia.

Nebo in ancient Babylonia and Assyria, Thoth (later Serapis) in Egyt, Taaut in Phenicia, Daud in Palestine, Apollo, Hermes, Mercury, among the Greeks and Romans, Odin in Scandinavia, and Buddha in India are all one and the same planet: Mercury, the planet nearest to and inseparable companion to the Sun, part of the year rising heliacally -- that is to say, seen for a few moments at dawn until obscured by the sun's greater light, when it was called "Apollo" -- and at another season, at the evening, as the Sun's light grows dim, when it was called "Mercury" ("Messenger of the Gods").

Symbols of the Hermetic Philosophy: Sulphur -- Mercury -- Salt.  
[See glyphs for these on page 18.]


pg. 19

Virgo is the Demeter of Ceres, and consequently the Kubele and Cybele of the "square stone"; Gemini, the twins, are the youthful Hercules and Apollo ("Strength and Beauty"); while Hermes, in the house of Demeter (Virgo), is the Divine Wisdom -- for it must be remembered that to the initiate all these pagan deities were but the attributes, emanations, or perceptible qualities of the "One" God.  

The secret wisdom of the alchemists, developed from the ancient Hebrew Kabbalah, says that the combiantion of "sulphur, salt, and mercury" is that which produces the "living Gold".  Mercury being denoted as the "bond" that unites the other two.

Alchemy was really a secret school of philosophy, teaching the same truths as Masonry once taught, only employing the terminology of hte chemist and refiner of metals instead of that of the builder.  

By these alchemical substances is really meant the 3-fold nature of man:

   - "Soul"                          (emanating from the sun)
  
   - "Body"                          (under special influence of the moon)
  
   - "Spirit" or mental intelligence (gift of Hermes or Mercury, the "mind".
                                      In sanskrit, it is "manas" (mind), 
                                      that which constitutes "man".)

pg. 19-20

Hermes became, in the course of many transformations, the archangel Raphael.

The historical Buddha (Gautama Skayamouni) must not be confounded with the Aryan Buddhi (the Divine Wisdom), still the name of the planet Mercury in India.  From India, where it was once Bo-den, the Indo-Germanic races carries this divinity, as Wo-den or Odin, to the farthest confines of Scandinavia.  The day of Mercury has always been what is the present Buddhist "sabbath", Wednesday.

pg. 20

Freemansonry.
Rosicrucianism.

"Mackey's Masonic Encyclopedia" shows that all the Masonry we are officially aware of today is but a mere fragment of all that has at one time or other figured as of impressive importance to the craft.  

Rosicrucians is described as an organization that has never had, and will never have any public or exoteric existence.  It is not the sort of club or society that has officers, holds public or even private meetings and elects eligible persons to membership.  

pg. 22

Freemasonry solely regards and addresses itself to the "Grand Architect of the Universe".  Freemasonry respects the Names under which this Unique Identity is apostrophized in every clime, by every race, and by every school of thought.   

pg. 23

Many of the ancient philosophers, therefore, taught that man could attain supreme contentment only by realizing his identity with the All.

[rluu: Is "finis" that shows up at the end of books Latin?  Does it mean "end"?]

pg.24

"that which is above may be discovered by examination of that which is below."


Each mind is a universe in little, a cell of the univrse in great, one as eternal as the other, and subject to the same law of gradual unfoldment.  Some day we shall know all the intricate and the complicated as we at present know that which is simple and few of parts; but the infinite aggregate, the unfathomable indivisible total, our Masonry teaches us the value.  Now.  



pg. 25

Freemasonry is fundamentally and structurally a system of natural theology.

Evidence of design or intention proves the presence of Mind, the wisdom power, and beauty of which may be inferred from the result.  

Kipling.  
[rluu: Who is Kipling?]

pg. 26

The ultimate and all-sustaining secret of Freemasonry is: 
The entire core of nature is manifested in cycles.  

Mathematics and geometry.

The same geometrical figures are prevalent (in nature), and all blend together into the marvelous triangle that caused old Pythagoras to cry "Eureka!" wen its beauties burst upon him.  

[Diagram of a 3-4-5 Pythagorean Triangle is shown on this page.]

pg. 27

The Triangle mentioned (3-4-5 triangle) is called the "47th Problem of Euclid", derived from it, is the great Greek Initiate and Teacher, Pythagoras of Krotona (B.C. 570-500).

What we learn of Pythagoras' philosophy from these sources (Sources: Philolaus, Jamblichus, and others that quoted him) indicate that the "number philosophy" of the Gnostic sect of Marcionites strongly resembled it.  

Pythagoras said:
"The Monad is God and the good, which is the origin of the One and is itself Intelligence.  The Monad is the eginning of everything.  Unity is the principle of all things."

pg. 28

We have archeological remains of the highest antiquity to prove that this problem fo the right-angled triangle of 3-4-5, of which the Euclidian figure is but one of several possible extensions, was the central symbol of the religion of widely dispersed millions during many centuries.  

The theorems of the sacred geometry of the ancient philosophers are not included in the works of Euclid, even though subject to the same mechanical laws he expounds.  This "sacred geometry", which is the branch underlying all Masonic symbolism, was not intended for the purpose of teaching Operative Masons how to make truly square corners, but for the far more noble and glorious purpose of demonstrating the unity of God, the likeness of the human mind to the divine mind, the omnipotence and omnipresence of God, and the immortality of the soul.


3 represents Osiris
4 represents Isis
5 represents Horus

The importance of "the triangle of Huramon" (Horus-Ammon-Hiram), is the center, core, or nucleus of the ancient sacred philosophy.

Its symbol for at least 5,000 years has been an eye, now the "all-seeing eye" of Freemasonry.  From it (this triangle), emanated the various canons of symmetry and order (time, space, number, and proportion).  

The prehistoric Mound Builders of America employed this same Pythagorean triangle to demonstrate the fourth dimension.

pg. 28-29

The "forty-seventh problem of Euclid" was regarded by the ancient mystics as a divinely appointed Canon of Universal harmony, to the fundamental mathematical truth of which might be traced most of the laws of symmetry and order, which reign throughout the vast expanse of Cosmos.  

pg. 30

All such defintiion (of Science, Deity, Power) was necessarily confined to terms of time, space, number and proportion, which can only be expressed in those of Mathematics or Geometry, the most stupendous of all contemplations being the observation fo the vast cosmic machine from an astronomical standpoint.  

If all the wonders of the Universe resolved themselves into mathematical expressions and the latter into geometrical figures, often simple ones at that, which in turn melted into the simple fundamentals of the latter science, then in the latter must be found the dynamic concentrations which most closely approach a conception of Divinity.  

[Connections between Hebrew and Greek gematria are noted.]

Hebrew Deity names: 
"Al Shdi" (Translated "God Almighty") ("El Shaddai") = 345
"Ahih Ashr Ahih" (Translated "I am that I am") = 543

These are the numbers in the 3-4-5 triangle.

345 + 543 = 888

Greek word "Jesous" = 888.

pg. 31

Egyptian philosophy of the 47th problem attributed:
 - Square of 3 to "Asar" (Osiris)
 - Square of 4 to "Ishah (Isis)
 - Square of 5 to "Chr"  (Horus)

"Asar", (3 * 54 = 162), is "Ash Ra", the Solar Fire.

Ishah (a name still preserved in the Arabic "Ayesha"), "The Female", meaning terrestrial "Nature", 4 * 54 or 216, which is the sum of the cubes of 3, 4, and 5.

"Chr", the Male principle or fructifying spirit of Nature, (2 * 54 = 108).

All of these numbers are multiples of 9, or 3 * 3.


pg. 32

Father = 162
Son = 108

270 = 162 + 108

JHVH = 26 = 10 + 5 + 6 + 5


The squares of the 3-4-5 triangle:
(3 * 3 = 9) (4 * 4 = 16) (5 * 5 = 25) 
(9 + 16 + 25 = 50)

This number 50 gave rise to the old Greek cabalistic name of the Sun, "Damnamenos of the fifty faces."  The Hebrews celebrated each fiftieth year as the Jubilee, calling it the "Power of the Number Twelve" (3 + 4 + 5).

pg. 33

The Number-Letter System.

Mackey's Masonic Encyclopedia.

Ancient employment of the base-10 number system by:
  - Greek
  - Egyptian
  - Chaldaic
  - Hindu (Sanskrit) words, older than Hebrew.


"acrostics"
"magic squares"


Understand this, we can translate into their proper number vlues the proportions, ground plans, and ornaments of ancient temples, besides countless biblical names and phrases, the classic proper names, magic words, and above all the passwords of our Masonic craft which explain the acts and allusions that accompany them.  

pg. 34

This system was really based upon a 26-letter alphabet answering to the 26 of JHVH, of which "alpha" was the first letter, "mu" or "mem" the middle, and "omega" the last, philosophically referring to the beginning, middle and end of human life.  

The "nonary" system (derived from nine or "3 times 3") is identical with what we now call the "decimal" system.  


The number 9 is a part of the great harmony of the universe.  Nine -- that is to say, the nine digits -- is the basis of number, and therefore of time, space, and proportion, which cannot be expressed in any terms but those of numbers.  

pg. 36

Any number multiplied by 9 will give a product the sum of whose digits will exactly equal 9.  This mergence of everything into 9 was likened to consumption by fire, which caused 9 to be termed the number of Vulcan, which latter name was derived from Tubal Cain, the Semitic "spirit of fire," that which resolves all that it attacks into its original elements.  


Nine thus stands in the great old number philosophy as the representative of the primordial substance from which all emanated and to which all must eventually return.  


Sacred 666 is the incarnation of the solar "logos" in humanity.  

pg. 37

In "Orient" Masonry the letter M is employed instead of G in connection witht he square and compasses.  The Manifested Word is the World Builder or Great Architect, the "Rab Bone" of the Essenes, or "Nazorim", the Chaldean Seers (see Hebrews i, 1-3; St. John xx, 16).  Another designation is that of the "Alpha and Omega," the two supplementary letters of A.U.M. (Revelation i, 8 eq seq.).


The letter M (40) represents 396 because it is the sum of 18 and 22 which multiplied together produce it.  The ancients made frequent use fo words each letter of which was the initial of another word, the whole forming sentences.  Thus the Romans constructed from A.U.M. "Arcifex Universus Mundi", or "Architect of the Universe of Worlds."


Ragon, the great French Masonic mystic.  

pg. 39

Seven planets:

Seven old gods of the Babylonians:
Shamash  : Sun
Sin      : Moon
Nebo     : Mercury
Ishtar   : Venus
Nergal   : Mars
Marduk   : Jupiter
Ea       : Saturn

Seven archangels of the Hebrews:
Michael  : Sun
Gabriel  : Moon
Raphael  : Mercury
Samael   : Venus
Uriel    : Mars
Amiel    : Jupiter
Zadkiel  : Saturn

[rluu Note:  Higgins does not explicitly pair the angels and planets up in his writing.  I've assumed here that he has named them to match up respectively with the order of planets that he gave two sentences earlier.]

[rluu: The list here conflicts with information elsewhere.  See my notes document "notes_BibleAngels.txt" for a more extensive listing from various sources.]

pg. 40

Seven stars of the Great Bear, forming a Swastika, in which the Hindus placed their seven Rishi or sages of primitive wisdom.  

pg. 41

Hebrew Old Testament
Greek New Testament

The Hebrew Old Testament led to the following writings:
  - Talmud
  - Kabbalah
  - Writings of Philo Judaeus


Philosophical system known as that of the "Chaldean Numbers".
This was the basis of the so-called Pythagorean system.  

Pythagoras did nomore than pass into greece that which eh learned fromt eh hierophants of Chaldea and Central India.  


Many Hebrews and Greeks employ the letters of their respective alphabets as numbers, to this very day.


Almost all the ancient names of Deity, when their letters are resolved into numbers, are found to consist of what are sometimes called "cosmic" numbers, in that they set forth some great and majestic planetary or terrestrial cycle which attests the stupendous scope of divine power and wisdom.  

pg. 42

The "Ineffable" Name is the most remarkable of these cabalistic words, becuase it can be shown in various ways to be the pivotal formula upon which turned the seven primitive sciences of the Chaldeans.  

In the original texts there are over a dozen different names of Deity, which are uniformly translated "God," even though individually they possess shades of meaning conveying notions of special divine attributes.  

The two accounts fo creation embodied in the book of Genesis are called the "Elohistic" and Jehovistic", respectively, because of the employment of the distinct titles "ALHIM" and "JHVH".  

The 3.1415 formula of the Pi proportion is popularly attributed to the noted Greek mathematician and engineer Archimedes of Syracuse.  

pg. 45

Angles of 60 degrees:

The electricity of the atmosphere, which at once finds lodgement upon all particles of moisture in suspension (whence the phenomena of lightning and thunder also), becomes the life force of the newly formed drop, and manifests its dynamic power equally in every direction; but always in straight lines, divergent from other straight lines angles of 60 degrees.


6-pointed star:

  Hindu:
    Up-pointed triangle   : Symbol of fire  (spirit) (Vishnu)
    Down-pointed triangle : Symbol of water (matter) (Shiva)

  Hebrew:
    "Mogun Dovid" or "Shield of David"
    "Seal of Solomon"

    It is embroidered in gold on the veil that conceals the sacred scroll of the Law in the Tabernacle.


Triangle has sum of angles of which is 180 degrees, or a semicircle.  
This in Hebrew cabalism was, S (60) L (30) M (40) N (50), while in the center are displayed three little circleslike the letter O.  The symbol therefore reads "S o L o M o N".

pg. 47

F. C. Degree.

M. C. Lecture.  


pg. 49

Generation upon generation of ancient hierophants knew that by "Hercules" was meant the planet Mercury at the moments of its numerous passages throught he Solar corona, which periods it became draped in the lion's skin.


Talmud of Israel

pg. 50

Information about the chronology of the monarcies and writings of these periods:
  - Assyrian
  - Babylonian
  - Sumerian
  - Akkadian

[rluu: I may want to study the histories of these time periods and peoples.]


All the ancient Hebrew names, beginning with the ineffable Tetragrammaton, are cabalistic constructions, upon a system borrowed from the Chaldeans.  


pg. 51

Each of the 22 letters of the Hebrew alphabet was a number, so that geometrical and mathematical formulas expressed in letters became words.

Not only this, but the following representations of Hebrew letters were made:

A : Earth element
Z : Water element
J : Fire element

Ch : Aries
V  : Taurus
H  : Gemini
Th : Cancer
L  : Leo
M  : Virgo
N  : Libra
S  : Scorpio
O  : Sagittarius
Tz : Capricorn
Q  : Aquarius
Sh : Pisces

G : Saturn
B : Jupiter
D : Mars
K : Sun
P : Venus
R : Mercury
T : Moon


"Menorah".  
[rluu: "Menorah" is the seven planets?  Answer: On page 78, Higgins says that "menorah" is the 7-branched candlestick.]


"sar" == king.


pg. 52

Hercules and Apollo (Tammuz or Adonis)

The two sons of David:
  - Jedediah ("God's Strength")
  - Adonijah ("God's love")

Hercules as the Tyrian Mlkarth (Melek-Kartha) was Hermes "King of the City" (of Tyre), and Apollo Hermes, the Divine Wisdom, who accompanies the Sun, the nearest of all his planetary retinue, until in pursuance of the divine order the planet Mercury "falls" in this thrice yearly circuit about the Lord of Day as the latter passes the sign of Libra, the highest of the 12.  


pg. 53

12 tribes of the ancient Hebrews == 12 zodiac signs

All the numbers, from 1 to 12, added togheter produce 78.

78 = 3 * 26
26 being the numerical value of JHVH (Jehovah).


Each cube possess 12 edges.

pg. 54

The grand mystery name of our Creator, called the Tetragrammaton (Greek for "four-letter name") had as its root the three letters J, H, and V, which as numbers were 10, 5, and 6.  JHVH sums to 21, the sum of the added numbers 1 to 6 represented by a single cube.  This was the form of the "Holy of Holies," in the great Temple of Solomon and the pious Jew, to this day, employs the two symbolic cubes, in the form of "Phylacteries".

Story of Patriarch Enoch (Hanok, father of Methuseleh), whose name means "the initiator."  Enoch lived 365 years.  The so-called Book of Enoch contains a remarkable recital of astronomical science as known to the ancients, told entirely in allegorical form.  Talmudic legend of Enoch.  

Mt. Moriah is the holy mountain of the Jews, as Mt. Meru was of the Hindus.  

pg. 54-55

King David bequeathed the "cubical stone" to his son Solomon, who made use of it as the cornerstone of the Temple.  


pg. 55

Phidias
Praxiteles

pg. 56

His triple name of Sol-Om-On we derive from the Septuagint, which was a translation of the Hebrew sacred books into Greek, accomplished by a commission of learned Alexandrian rabbis sent to Jerusalem for the purpose of King Ptolmey Philadelphus with the aid of a commission appointed by the then High Priest Eleazar, about B.C. 246.

Irrespective of its application to the historical character, the name, "Solomon" was a cabalistic composition intended profoundly to symbolize Divine Wisdom.  The outward form of the name expressed precisely the same symbolism as the three principal officers of the Masonic lodge, -- the sun rising in the east (Sol), the sun at meridian in the south (Om), and setting in the west (On).  These three names, taken separately, were also very old, and in a variety of ways connected all that men had discovered of the wonders of hte universe, showing that they were but varying aspects of the great Jehovah.  


pg. 58-59

At the temples (ordered from slowest to fastest planet):

Saturn  : black chamber
Jupiter : orange-hued temple
Mars    : red
Sun     : Gold
Venus   : pale yellow
Mercury : blue (Blue Lodge)
Moon    : silver temple


pg. 59

The three lesser lights were: 
  - Sun
  - Moon
  - Mercury

pg. 60

Holy Saints John
Two Saints John

Nebo, who is this same alternate morning and evening star.
[rluu: On page 80, Higgins names the morning and evening star as Mercury.]

King Solomon's Temple at Tyre

The temples of the Phenicians, especially the great prototype of King Solomon's Temple at Tyre, were dedicated to the two Hermes under the anmes of Baal and Mlkarth, or Apollo and Hercules, to whom were sacred the two most critical moments of the year, the solstices.  

pg. 61-62

It is curious that hte name of "John" should conduct us to this very circumstance; for it is a derivation from the age-old name of Oannes (Ea-Han), the name given by the Ninevites to this same planet Mercury, who, thrown out of the ship (falling below the sun as the latter passed through the sign of the Fish), disappeared, only to rise again triumphantly and become a teacher of men.  The uncovered ruins of Nineveh are everywhere carved with colossal statues of Oannes the Fish-man, whose tradition, as the first instructor of men in the arts and sciences, reached the Tyrians as that of Dag-On, "The fish of the Setting sun," and the Hebrews as "Jonh" (translated "Jonas" or "Jonah").  As the ancients saw the sun ightly sink in the west, far beyond the Straits of Gibraltar, they called the two promontories that flank it the "Pillars of Hercules"; by which names they are still known.  The calabistic meaning of Jonh is Jod, Vau, Heh; and the letter Nun, which means "a Fish."

[rluu: Allan Blakstad says the riddle of Jonah is solved through numerology... so I'm not sure if this is correct.]

The Egyptian also dedicated twin pillars to Osiris and Isis, the signs of Leo and Virgo, whose son Horus is but another form of Hermes.  They called that of Osiris "Strength" because it represented the power of God -- which is "Hercules" again.  The pillar of Isis they designated "Establishment," which referred to Nature, that which is set up and maintiained by God's power, whose husband-son is the alternately dying and reviving divinity.  


Hebrew tribes:
Naphtali == Virgo
Levi     == Gemini

[rluu: This conflicts with information elsewhere.  See my notes in document "notes_BibleTribes.txt" for a more extensive listing from various sources.]


The two Holy Saints John, the one purely material and the other purely spiritual, were taken by Christian symbolists to personify the age-old Mystery of regeneration.  

pg. 64

All the same god of fertility and increase as well as patron of the liberal arts and sciences:

  - Horus in Egypt
  - Bel in Chldea
  - Baal in Phenicia and Syria

pg. 65

"Pillars of Hercules".  The two pillars or obelisks are termed this because of hte scene of the descent into Hades which constituted the last of the "12 labors" of this ancient year-god.  

There is no possibility of the present-day belief that these pillars originated with the construction fo any King Solomon's Temple at Jerusalem.  They are represented on too many monuments of far greater age for this to be the case.  In Tyre they stood before the great temple of Melkarth, the Tyrian Hercules (Hiram, King of Tyre).  In Egypt they represented Osiris (strength) and Isis (establishment).  An Egyptian amulet int eh writer's possession shows the Egyptian god Bes, representing Osiris, as the Syrian Baal approaching from the east through the two pillars, his head surmounted by the three plumes that symbolized the letter G -- this also being an age-old cabalism, and not a modern symbol as many suppose.  The Egyptians also called these pillars the "Pillars of Set" or Typhon, with reference to the western Hades of which we have already spoken.  

Finally, the true Hebrew spellings of these pillars are, "IKIN" and "BOAZ", which words, to be properly understood, must be halved into IK-IN and BO-AZ, translated into their numerical equivalents, 30-60 and 72-8.  When multiplied together, the first will give 1,800 and the second 576.  The digits 3, 6, 7, 2, and 8 of the the two words added together produce 26, or Jod Heh, Vau, Heh.  

pg. 67

Mackey's Masonic Encyclopedia.

Lodge room floor was 3 x 4 in proportion.

"equation of loci"

pg. 71

Three sacred virtues, which by the Jain sects in India are still called "the three jewels," represented by three circles, "right belief," "right knowledge," and "right conduct."  These are necessities for the state liberation.  


To the ancient candidate (initiate) were also recommended the three successive steps which open the soul to free and unobstructed activity and communication on both the psychic and the spirital planes.  The first was to still the ego and empty the mind of every bias and standard of self and sense.  The second consisted, when this passive state had been induced, in fixing and holding the attention upon the specific object about which the truth was desired.  Thirdly, the foregoing two steps having been taken, the individual was to stand firmly and persistently in the receptive and listening attidue for the immediate revelation of the truth, in the full expectation of getting it.  This receptive state and expectant attitude opened the consciousness to the psychic vibrations that write unerringly their story on the receptive mind.

pg. 72

Egyptian Book of the Dead.

"Ani", the Scribe [of the Egyptians].  

pg. 73

The Master's Word.

pg. 75

The Great and Sacred Name was unrepeatable in all circumstances.  It was the priceless sacerdotal secret, and the wisdom of the ancient seers consisted in demonstrating it to be the root of all manifested being.  


"Logos" in Greek (philosophy) means the "Word" or "Builder".

pg. 76

Hebrew's 12 sons of Jacob to zodiac signs:
Reuben   : Ram (Aries) 
Naphtali : Virgo

pg. 77

Horus and Isis in Egypt.
Bel and Ishtar in Babylonia.
Baal and Ashtoreth (or Astarte) in Phenicia.

pg. 78

"menorah" == seven-branched candlestick.

pg. 79

King Solomon's Temple == The House eternal of the future.  

pg. 80

Mercury == "the messenger of the Gods".  

Higgins says that Mercury, rising above and falling below the Sun, sometimes appears as "morning" star and sometimes as "evening" star, and often passes through "the lion's skin," the fiery corona of his celestial master, King Sol-Om-On.

pg. 84

Eternity is represented by a circle.  

The division of this year-circle into 12 equal parts is one of the pillars of geometry, as its further section into 360 is of mathematics.  Neither is an arbitrary process, but each is founded on fixed natural principles.  

The allegorical story of the annual building of the Temple (King Solomon's Temple), its destruction and restoration in three days, the untimely loss of its chief architect and of his miraculous revival for the purpose of continuing his labors, is the theme of legends as old as the Pyramids, if not older.  

pg. 85-86

About 12 divisions of the circle:

We find the number 12 predominating in all the arragements of the Israelites.  Twelve oxen supported the great laver in King Solomon's Temple, and 12 lions led to his throne.  The selection of 12 apostles was in obedience to this most ancient of traditions.  

pg. 88

The ancient sacred writing sof the East reveal the fact that light was considered the original primordial material; so that when God said "Let there be light", He was not merely illuminating that which had already been created, but this was, in fact, the first creative act of the Great Architect.  


Adding the numbers 1 to 36 gives 666.

pg. 89

The triple-looped character "Ch", passing through the lozenge-shaped "R" (Vescica Piscis), represented the perpetual reincarnation of life by passage through the womb of Nature.  

pg. 91

The most important features of God's creation are inextricably built around the precise geometrical relation of a square to a circle.  

3-4-5 triangle has the following angles:
  - 36.86 degrees, or approximately 37 degrees.
  - 53.15 degrees, or approximately 53 degrees.
  - 90 degrees.

pg. 92

103,680 = 4 * 25,920

Euclid's famous 47th problem.  

pg 93

"Logos" is the Greek term for the "Word".

pg. 94

Geometers all know, however, that by these networks of squares might be demonstrated nearly all the known harmonies of Nature; for, while every intersection of a horizontal with a perpendicular line is a center upon which the immovable leg of the compasses may be placed, any such center will be a point within a series of circles circumscribing the similar centers at any selected distance round it, while lines drawn from the center so chosen to the points on the circumference where the circle crosses the intersecting line will divide such a circle into segments, which are exact equal divisions, on the age-old scale of 360 degrees. 

The resut of adhering to this process is to procure exact scales of numbers, which are termed by scientists "cosmic quantities" because they are found to be the exact numbers present in the various phenomena of Nature that may be described in mathematical or geometrical terms.  

Every number connected with our measurements of time is a "cosmic number":
  -  7 of our weekdays
  - 12 of our months
  - 24 of our hours
  - 52 of our weeks
  - 60 of our minutes and seconds
  - 28 of our lunar month
  - 30 days of our mean solar month
  - 365 days 6 hours of our solar year
  - 72 years, 2,160 years, and 25,920 years during which the solstices and equinoxes travel backward through a degree, a sign, and the whole circle of the ecliptic respectively.
  - Subdivision of the ecliptic from 12 signs into 36 decans.  
  - 270 days of human gestation.
  - The precise intervals of the revolutions of the principal planets round the sun give rise to others.  


pg. 95

With these numbers, right-angled, horizontal, and perpendicular lines, we can see several squarings of the circle, and the visual demonstration of the squares, cubes and roots employed in higher mathematics.  


Jod-Heh-Vau-Heh is 10, 5 + 6 + 5.  10 is the length of the vertical line.  16 the length of the base.  These are at proportions of a 3-4-5 triangle.  [See diagram on pg. 95].

The Prophet Isaiah tells us (xix, 19-20), "On that day there shall be an altar to JHVH in the midst of the land of Egypt and a pillar at its border to JHVH; and it shall be for a SIGN and a testimony unto God-JHVH in the land of Egypt."

pg. 96

Mercury has a year of 88 days. ("Year" in Latin, "annus", means "a ring", or compete circle of the sun.).    Part of the year Mercury rises simultaneously with the sun, when ti is seen as a "morning star" for a few moments at day break.  At another season it is seen for only a few minutes at evening, as the sun sets.  Always disappearing in the intensifying solar rays, this phenomenon was likened to draping in the Lion's skin.  

pg. 97

Mercury goes around the Sun 4 times in one Earth year, but they are symbolically limited to three, because while this planet "rises above" and "falls below" the sun with each of its revolutions, as a mythological personage three of these falls are characterized as due to the attack of an enemy, while the fourth, occurring close ot the winter solstice, was accounted a burial, the subsequent rise from which was a resurrection.  

108 - the span of human life, was both the number and the name of Mercury.  

216 - double of 108, was called by the Pythagoreans the number of metempsychosis, or reincarnation.  

The "thrice born" had advanced in wisdom and sanctity to the rank of a "Holy One," a fact that hte Hebrews have preserved in their word "kadosh" (KDSh), which has the value of three times 108, or 324.  

pg. 97-98

The Hindu mystery of the 10 avatars, or successive births of Vishnu, illustrates the progress of the human being through successive terrestrial lives of a fish to a god.  In the 9th avatar, the ever-upward pursuing soul becomes a Buddha, completely possessed of the divine wisdom; hence nine times 108, which is the same as three times 324, or three times Kadosh ("Holy, Holy, Holy"); while three times around hte circle of 360 degrees gives us the number 1,080, or 10 times 108, which accomplishes the rounds of rebirth in teh Kalki Avatar, the conqueror on the white horse, with the blazing sword, whose mission it is permanently to establish righteousness and truth upon the earth.  

pg. 99

Nebo and Hermes was Mercury.

pg. 100-101

Planet lordships of the days.

Planet lordships of the 168 hours of a 7-day week.  

The first day of creation was what we now call "Sunday". 

pg. 102

The true Masonic cipher is the number 3 which is a "gimel" in Hebrew and "gamma" in Greek.  

Pythagorean triangle:
  - 3 side: Osiris, the male or creative principle to the Egyptians.
  - 4 side: the female principle.
  - 5 side: the offspring.  
  
3 + 4 + 5 = 12, and 1 + 2 made 3.  
This was the way the Pythagoreans reasoned, claiming, perhaps truly, that if we understood "number" we should understand everything in creation, because all nature was but a vast arithmetical process, made visible in harmonious forms determined according to number.  

Pythagoras reduced all manifestation of form to squares, circles, and triangles.  The Greek letter G (gamma) is in the form of a Mason's square.  The letter O is a circle, and the letter D (delta) a triangle, giving us the word, "God".

These are the numbers 3, 6, and 4, aligned, added togheter, a total of 13, but as 364 (13 times 28), the months of a lunar year, which was the origin of our 52 weeks of seven days each.  


pg. 103

All of the Hebrew deity names founded on the Ineffable Name were numerical multiples of 13.  

[rluu: Continue taking notes, starting on page ].


##############################################################################
