DEDICATED
TO THE MEMORY OF MY MOTHER

SUSAN R. GANN
AND
TO AN OLD SCHOOLMATE IN TEXAS
MY NATIVE STATE

THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR

or
LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
BY

W. D. GANN
Author of "Truth of the Stock Tape" and
"Speculation a Profitable Profession"

Copyright, 1927
By W. D. GANN

This E-Book is not to be sold.
It is a free educational service
in the public interest
published by

Gann Study Group

FOREWORD

“Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that
getteth understanding." -- Proverbs.

A BOOK, to be worth reading, must do more than 
amuse and interest.  It must be instructive to 
be of real value to the reader.  This book has a three-
fold purpose:
First, It is an interesting romance.
Second, It teaches a moral lesson and proves the
natural laws laid down in the Bible.
Third, It shows the value of science, foreknowledge
and preparedness.
It has been well said that truth is stranger than fic-
tion. This story is founded on facts and events, many
of which have happened or will happen in the future.
The "Tunnel Thru the Air" is mysterious and con-
tains a valuable secret, clothed in veiled language.
Some will find it the first time they read it, others will
see it in the second reading, but the greatest number
will find the hidden secret when they read it the third
time.
You will read it the first time because you are inter-
ested in the love story and for amusement. This will
create a desire to read it a second time for instruction
and knowledge. The second reading will unfold some
of the hidden meanings and you will gain knowledge
thru understanding, which will stimulate an incent-

FOREWORD
ive to put the knowledge gained into action. You will read
it the third time because you want to make your dreams
and ideals become real and find how to start knowledge
into action.
When you read it the third time, a new light will dawn.
You will find the hidden secret, the veiled meaning and
will understand why the Bible says, “Seek and ye shall
find, knock and it shall be opened unto you.” You
will want to understand more about the Bible. Then
read the Bible three times and you will know why it is
the greatest book ever written. It contains the key to
the process by which you may know all there is to know
and get all that you need to supply your demands and
desires. You will appreciate why Solomon said, “Wis-
dom is the principal thing: therefore get wisdom and
with all thy getting, get understanding.” The future
will become an open book. You will know that by fol-
lowing the laws laid down in the Bible, man’s last great
enemy, Death, will be overcome and will understand
why Jesus rose on the third day and rested on the
seventh day. Robert Gordon’s seven days will no longer
be a mystery because you will have gained understand-
ing.
I believe this book will prove interesting and valuable
to men and women in all walks of life. If it does,
you will be thankful to the power that guided my hand
in showing you the way to eternal Truth. My object
will have been accomplished and I will have my reward.
W.D.GANN.
May 9, 1927.

THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
CHAPTER I

IN the extreme corner of the Lone Star 
State of Texas, about eight miles west of Texar-
kana, in a lonely farm-house on Sunday morning, June
10th, Amelia Gordon turned over in her bed and
watched the sunlight streaming thru the window on
the head of her new-born son. She had always hoped
that this, her third son, would be born on Sunday, but
he was born late Saturday night, June 9th, 1906. A
few months before his birth, his mother had suffered
a severe shock on account of the death of her oldest son
in the San Francisco earthquake in April, and for a
time it was feared that her third son might never be
born to live. She was happy this Sunday morning
when she looked at her bouncing baby boy, dreamed
of his future, and thought of what his name should be.
Calvin Gordon, the baby’s father, had been a Captain
in the U.S. Army in Spain. He had won distinction
for his cool courage and daring nerve, and after the close
of the Spanish-American war, moved from Tennessee
to Texas. Capt. Gordon had been very much depressed
after the loss of his eldest son in the San Francisco
earthquake, and was very much cheered up at the birth
of this boy, and hoped that the youngest son might ful-
fill the ambitions he had for his first born.

2
It had always been the custom of Calvin and Amelia
Gordon to go to the little country church every Sunday
morning, but this morning Capt. Gordon remained with
his wife so that they could talk over the naming of
their son. Capt. Gordon suggested the name “Robert,”
which was the name of his father, and his wife quickly
acquiesced, so the baby was named Robert.
Amelia Gordon was a great Bible student, and had
always hoped that she would have a son born who would
be a preacher, so she thought that little Robert might
fulfill her hopes and ambitions.
Capt. Gordon was a farmer, growing mostly cotton
crops on the Red River bottom lands. The following
year, 1907, after the birth of little Robert, Capt. Gor-
don's crops were almost a failure. The Spring was
late and overflows damaged cotton. This, together with
unfavorable financial conditions, caused a panic in the
United States in the Fall of 1907. Thus the first year
of the boy's life started under unfavorable conditions.
When Robert was a little over two years old, his
mother gave birth to a girl, the first born to her, but
still she showed great interest in Robert; talked much
of his future and took great interest in teaching him to
live according to the Bible.
At about the age of five, his mother began to teach
him the alphabet. He learned very quickly how to read
and write, before he started to school. He was always
willing and glad to go to Sunday School with his
mother, took a great interest in the sermon, and what
the Sunday School teacher had to say about the creation
of the world, and about God’s great plan.

3
Little Robert went to church one day and the preacher
took his text from 1 Thes. 4: 16-18, “For the Lord him-
self shall descend from Heaven with a shout, with the
voice of the archangel and with the trump of God; and
the dead in Christ shall rise first: Then we which are
alive and remain, shall be caught up together with them
in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall
we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one an-
other with these words.”
Robert was very much interested in this sermon, and
asked his mother to explain how the Lord could descend
from Heaven and what kind of vehicle we would ride
in if we were caught up in the clouds to meet the Lord
in the air. His mind puzzled over this for weeks and
months, and he was anxious to understand more about
it. He said, "Mother, I should like to meet the Lord
in the air.”
His mother said, “You will be able to do so some
day, Bobbie.”
When in Sunday School one day, the teacher read
from 2 Thes. 1: 7-8, “And to you who are troubled rest
with us; when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from
Heaven with his mighty angels, in flaming fire taking
vengeance on them that know not God, and that obey
not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ.” The preacher
said that the Lord had placed the rainbow in the sky
as a testimony that he would never again destroy the
world by water, but explained that God would come
again in a flame of fire and thus take vengeance on
those who did not believe and destroy the world by fire.
Robert wanted to know if the good Lord who loves us

4
so much would destroy the world and all of those in
it. His mother explained that God would destroy those
that were sinners and rebelled against him and had not
accepted his word.
Bobbie was in Sunday School again and heard them
read from 1 Tim. 2: 11-14: “Let the woman learn in
silence with all subjection. But I suffer not a woman
to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man, but to
be in silence. For Adam was first formed, then Eve.
And Adam was not deceived; but the woman being
deceived, was in the transgression.” He asked the
Sunday School teacher to explain what this meant, -- by
learning in silence and subjection. He also wanted an
explanation of the statement that a woman should not
teach, because he said that his mother had always taught
him and loved him, and his father had paid no atten-
tion to him and had no desire to teach him. He wanted
to know if it was wrong for his mother to teach him,
and if God would punish her. The teacher replied that
the Lord said, “Suffer the little children to come unto
me, and forbid them not, for of such is the Kingdom
of God.” She explained that his mother set an example
more by her love and devotion than by words; that a
mother's actions would influence a child more than any-
thing she could say, and this was the great silent
teaching.
Robert often visited the colored mammies on the plan-
tation and listened to the ghost stories they told, and the
fear was created in his mind of the spirits that walked
in the night. He was often afraid that the goblins
would get him if he didn't watch out. One Sunday at

5
church, the preacher took for his text Gen. 1: 7, “For
God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power
and of love and of a sound mind.” When Robert heard
this, he wanted to know how it was that we should fear
things, if God had not given us the spirit of fear nor
created the spirit of fear in us, but gave us a spirit of
power and of love and of sound mind. His mother
explained to him that the ghost and the fear of the dark
which the old darkies told him about, were nothing but
superstition, and he should banish it from his mind.
A few Sundays later, the minister took his text from
2 Tim. 3: 1, “This know also, that in the last days peril-
ous times shall come.” Robert was anxious to know
when the last days would come. His mother told him
it would be at the time of the end of the world and God
would again come to destroy the world by fire.
The minister continued to read from 2 Tim. 3: 15,
“And that from a child thou hast known the holy scrip-
tures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation
through faith which is in Christ Jesus.” Robert was
desirous of knowing if children could teach more about
the scriptures than grown people. His mother told him
that the Bible said, “A little child shall lead them,”
and that anyone who would harm little children, can
in no wise enter into the Kingdom of Heaven.

6
CHAPTER II

IN 1913, Robert suffered a severe illness in the 
Spring, and for a few months his life was despaired 
of, but he quickly recovered. Soon after his recovery,
his father took him on a fishing trip to Spirit Lake.
The old darky of slavery days went along, and while
he was putting worms on Robert’s hook, told the story
about this lake and why it was named “Spirit Lake.”
The old darky said that the spirit of a beautiful lady
walked on the waters of the lake at night and that was
why they called it Spirit Lake.
Long, long years ago, the daughter of a wealthy
planter fell in love with a poor but honest boy and after
many years of courtship, in which they spent many
moonlight nights rowing on the beautiful lake, the time
came when they felt that they could no longer be sepa-
rated. The young man pleaded with her father to con-
sent to their marriage, but he stubbornly refused and
threatened to kill the young man if he ever called at
his home again. They then planned to elope one night,
and as her sweetheart was placing a ladder under the
window and helping her to get down, her father shot
her lover and killed him. When she found that he was
dead, she ran to the lake and drowned herself. They
searched for days for her body and one moonlight night
they saw her walking on the water. They rowed out

7
on the lake and found her body floating on the water.
He said that the fish would always bite better at full
moon, but the darkies were afraid to fish there because
the spirit of this beautiful young lady walked on the
water.
Bobbie came home very much interested and excited
and told his mother all about the fish they caught at
Spirit Lake and about the story old Moses told him
about the spirit walking on the water. He told his
mother that the Sunday School teacher had read in the
Bible where Christ walked on the water, and he wanted
her to explain how this could happen. She told him
that all of those things happened in the days of miracles
which had passed and no longer happened in these days.
Bobbie had a great desire to walk or ride upon the
water, and was enthusiastic about bicycles. He told
his mother that he intended to build a bicycle some day
that he could ride on the water.
In 1914, when war broke out, Capt. Gordon, who
had once served in the Spanish-American War, became
very much interested in the conflict and followed it very
closely, reading the papers daily and talking about it.
Robert soon began to take great interest in the war and
asked his father and mother many questions about the
foreign countries which were involved in the great strug-
gle. He would sit for hours, listening to his mother
read the Bible, from the Book of Revelation, the prophe-
cies of the Great War, where it says that nation shall
rise against nation.
Robert’s mother told him of his grandfather who dis-
tinguished himself in the Civil War, and the great hard-

8
ships her mother had to go thru during the war
days; how her great-grandfather fought in the War of
1812. She talked of his grandfather, Colonel Robert
Gordon, for whom he was named, and how he became
famous during the Civil War, and how later Robert’s
own father went with Colonel Roosevelt and became a
Captain in the Spanish-American War in 1898. Rob-
ert’s oldest brother, Herbert, was born in 1894, and
his second brother, Ralph, was born in 1898 after his
father went to the war. His mother spent many anxious
months and worried with the children while Capt. Gor-
don was away at war. She prayed that war would be
ended for all time.
She said, “Bobbie, you come from a generation of
fighters on both sides, but I hope that you will be a
minister and preach against war. While the tragic
death of your brother Herbert in San Francisco was
a shock that I have never fully recovered from, yet I
had rather know that he went that way than to have
him go to war and lose his life. I remember well the
many sleepless nights that I have passed thru while
your father was away at war and how happy I was
when he returned. I prayed to God then that war might
be ended and that none of my sons would ever have to
go to war.”
“Mother,” said Bobbie, “when I get to be a man, I
will be a preacher and tell the people to be peaceful and
stop fighting, but why doesn’t God stop the war?”
“My son, war is the work of the devil, not of God,
and the Bible tells us that the old dragon has to be loosed
for a little season, but in the Book of Revelation, we

9
read that Satan is bound for a thousand years. I hope
I live to see that day and I feel sure you will. A few
nights before you were born I had a very strange dream.
I thought I saw San Francisco and Los Angeles de-
stroyed in two days by some war machine, and that
one of my sons came near losing his life there, but was
saved and afterwards he saved his country and made
peace with the world. I suppose I dreamed about San
Francisco because Herbert lost his life there but, some-
how, I feel that it was more than a dream, and that
you are born to be a peacemaker.”
Bobbie was greatly impressed with his mother’s
dream and her hopes and ambitions for him, but his
brother would quarrel and try to fight with him. Bob-
bie would tell him that Dad wanted him to be peaceful
and that his mother wanted him to be a peacemaker
and that he would not fight. His brother called him
“Cottonhead” because his hair was so white, and accused
him of being a white-livered coward, but Bobbie was
patient and did not lose his temper. His mother would
commend him for this and tell him that the Bible said
to control your temper and not let your angry passions
rise.
About this time some of the prejudice which little
Robert had inherited from his grandfather and from his
father, began to show forth. Unfavorable conditions
thruout the country and the low price of cotton left
Capt. Gordon practically penniless, causing him and
all of his children to labor hard in order to support
themselves. He tried to force young Robert to work in
the fields and help cultivate the cotton, but he stubbornly

10
rebelled. He would play around the house, use his
father’s tools and talk about the great inventions that
he was going to make. His mother was always in
sympathy with Robert and tried to encourage him, but
she could never get him to take an interest in working
on a farm. He talked of being a preacher, talked of
great inventions and discoveries, but would not work
at hard labor.
In 1917, when the United States entered the World
War, young Robert was eleven years old. He had great
ambitions to join the Army and go to the war. His
older brother Ralph joined the Army. Young Robert
said that if he could not go and fight for his country
he would stay at home and work on a patent which
would help them to win the war. He did not agree or
get along with his older brother and was glad when he
had gone away to war. His parents were still in poor
circumstances but they could not induce young Robert
to do any work on the farm. He continued to tinker
around and work with his father’s tools, trying to make
a bicycle which he could ride upon the water in the
lake nearby. He tried various kinds of lumber to build
wheels for the bicycle but none of them worked success-
fully. Finally his mother suggested that he use thin
cedar boards because cedar was durable in the water,
was light and would float easily. He finally succeeded
in building the wheels out of cedar and after heating
pine rosin hot and pouring it into the cracks, he was
able to ride successfully across the lake, but in a short
time the wheels sprung a leak and the bicycle sunk with

11
him in the lake, but he swam out and brought the bicycle
with him.
Bobbie was not the kind to be discouraged by obstacles
and later his ingenuity overcame the difficulties. After
trying to put inner tubes from bicycle tires on the in-
side of the wheels of his water bicycle and failing again,
he finally got some inner tubes from an automobile and
placed them inside his wooden wheels and pumped them
up. When they were filled with air, they pushed against
the wooden sides of the wheel, buoying up the wheel, and
he was then able to ride his bicycle around over the
lake without any trouble.
His mother was very proud of him and said “Bobbie,
one day your dream of becoming a great inventor will
he realized. You have not been wasting your time
tinkering around with your father’s tools trying to make
things.” His brother, Ralph, continued to call him
“Fool Bobbie” and “Mother’s dream”; said he would
never amount to anything because he wouldn’t work on
the farm like the rest of them. Bobbie always found
a willing listener in his mother. She helped him with
his studies in school and encouraged him in every way
and showed that she believed in him and had faith that
one day he would be a great man. This encouraged him
to do greater things.
The success with the water bicycle had kindled his
ambition and created a desire to complete other inven-
tions that he had in mind. He told his mother of a
dream he had of a white-winged bird that flew across
the ocean thru the air; that he was riding the bird

12
and that he received a great triumph and reception when
he visited the foreign countries, and how his own people
received him in great glory when he returned. His
father called these stories “pipe dreams,” but his
mother took great interest in them and always encour-
aged him. Robert talked very little to his father or
brother but always went to his mother and talked over
things and confided in her. She encouraged him be-
cause she felt that he was an answer to her prayer,
after her eldest son had died, -- that God might
give her another son who would live and that she might
have her desires and hopes realized which were lost
thru the death of her eldest son.
Robert was entirely strange and different from other
boys. He never seemed to want to play with them, but
kept very much by himself; talked along different lines,
and made a confidant of his mother only. She seemed
to understand him as no one else did and he always
came to her for an explanation of his problems, and for
consolation in time of trouble.
Robert’s mother ofter talked to Capt. Gordon about
him -- told him that he was a peculiar and most unusual
child and that she thought that his refusal to work at
manual labor was not because he was lazy but because
she believed that he had a superior mind, and that if
properly educated and trained, he would become a great
man some day, an honor to his parents. She told him
that Bobbie had advanced ideas fully a hundred years
ahead of his time and that he should be educated and
allowed to follow his own ideas. His father, failing
to understand him, agreed with his mother and decided

13
when Robert was about thirteen years of age, that there
was no use trying to keep him on the farm, but that
he should be sent away to Texarkana to school, to learn
something and to become interested in the things along
which his mind seemed to lead.
While in this school he met his first real boy chum,
one who seemed to understand him and one who proved
to be a help to him in school. Walter Kennelworth
was the son of a wealthy lumberman. He had every
advantage that money could bring and was far advanced
in his studies, thus being able to render help to Robert,
who had no interest in grammar but took a great interest
in history and mathematics. Walter would help him
with his work in grammar and geography. They be-
came fast friends. Robert told Walter of his plans for
the future; that he hoped to be a great inventor; wanted
to get an education and travel around the world to see
the country and learn about things and develop the
ideas which he thought would help his country in time
of war. He had heard so many stories about his grand-
father’s adventures in the Civil War and his father’s
experiences in the Spanish-American War that he had
the desire to be a great soldier and serve his country.
He spent nearly all of his time reading the newspapers
and following the progress of the war. He was ex-
tremely interested in the victories of our boys overseas,
and when they began to turn the tide against the Ger-
mans, he was greatly elated and told his mother that he
knew that the Stars and Stripes would never trail the
dust and that victory was sure as soon as the American
boys went on the other side.

14
Walter Kennelworth also had ambitions of becoming
a soldier and of making new discoveries and inventions
along chemical lines. His hopes and aspirations were
to one day become a great chemist. The vast difference
in the environment and conditions under which these
two boys had been brought up seemed to make no dif-
ference in their friendship. It ripened as the years
went by. Robert and Walter were often together and
Walter often invited Robert to his father’s home. Wal-
ter’s father and mother became very fond of Robert.
When the armistice came in 1918, Robert talked with
his mother and father, asking them if that would be
the last war. They, of course, expressed the hope that
it would be, and Robert said that he had read the Bible
and thought that the greatest war in history was yet to
come. He began to express ideas about new inventions
years ahead of the times. He begged his father and
mother to let him leave school and go to work in an
automobile factory where he could learn about machin-
ery and understand how to complete the inventions
which he was always talking about.
School was over in the Summer of 1919, and Mr.
J. H. Kennelworth, Walter’s father, offered Robert a
position in his office during the summer months. After
business, Walter and Robert would often go out auto-
mobile riding. Along in July, he met with a serious
accident. The automobile was overturned and Robert’s
arm was broken, and he suffered internal injuries. He
was taken to the hospital where he lay for several weeks
before recovery. His mother was very much worried
and alarmed over this accident, and thought it was best

15
for Bobbie to return to the farm and not work in the
city any more.
His brother Ralph had just returned from France,
where he had met with many obstacles in the war but
had received no serious injury. Robert went home for
a rest after the accident. He had many disagreements
and fights with his older brother, and it seemed to be
impossible to get along. All of the trouble occurred over
the fact that Robert would not work on the farm, or
help his brother.
Bobbie prevailed upon his mother to let him go back
to school in the Fall because he was making great prog-
ress and hoped to have a big position some day with
Mr. Kennelworth’s firm.
In the Fall of 1919, he returned to school, but made
slow progress in his studies. His health was not good;
he seemed unable to concentrate or make much progress.
He barely passed his examinations at the end of the
year, but continued to study hard and make progress in
mathematics and history. In grammar, writing and
geography he was always falling below his marks, and
Walter Kennelworth had to help him out.
In the Spring of 1920, just before the close of school,
Robert’s father obtained help to cultivate the cotton
plantation. He thought it best that Robert should come
home that summer and help to work on the farm, but
again the boy refused, and met with stubborn opposition
and abuse from his brother, who called him “the fool
inventor” and said that he would never amount to any-
thing because he refused to work on the farm. He said
that he wanted to be “Gentleman Robert,” and called

16
him the “white-collar boy.” These disagreements and
disputes with his brother were very annoying and dis-
appointing to Robert’s mother, because she wanted the
children to get along in peace. Robert told his mother
that on account of his brother he would never live at
home again; that he would continue to stay in Texar-
kana and go to school until he had finished his educa-
tion, and then he would go to work for Mr. Kennel-
worth. His mother had great faith in him and told him
that she knew everything would come out all right for
him, and that he should study hard, make the most of
his opportunities, and prepare for the position Mr.
Kennelworth was going to give him upon completing
his studies.
Capt. Gordon had been very successful during the
war growing cotton. Prices had gone very high and
he had accumulated quite a little money. But in 1920
cotton prices declined rapidly and his cotton brought
very little, which again reduced them to poor circum-
stances. Robert became very ill again from malaria
during the Spring and Summer of 1920, so that he was
unable to work even if he wanted to. Up to this time
he had shown no ambition for any kind of work, except
to try to make something with his father’s tools; talk
about inventions and some of the great things he was
going to do in the years to come. His mother had al-
ways petted him because of his severe illnesses and
accident, and his father often referred to him as his
mother’s burden or his mother’s problem. But she had
great faith in young Robert because he clung so strongly
to religion, believing in the Bible. Robert would spend

17
days and hours reading the Bible and talking to his
mother and asking her questions about it and its mean-
ing. He had a great desire to travel and see the world
and was always planning to visit strange places. While
he showed great affection for his mother, his desire was
to get away and see the world.

18
CHAPTER III

IN the Spring of 1921, Robert began to make greater 
progress in his studies, which greatly encouraged 
his chum, Walter Kennelworth. Robert would study
and read early and late. Walter would often call on
him in his room and find him there deeply engrossed
reading the Bible and puzzling over the interpretation
of the meaning of many parts of the Scriptures.
One Sunday in the early part of June, Robert and
Walter went to church and the minister took for his
text 1 Cor. 13: 2, “And though I have the gift of
prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowl-
edge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove
mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing.” Then
the minister read from the 7th verse, “Beareth all
things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth
all things,” and again from the 11th verse, “When I
was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child,
I thought as a child; but when I became a man, I put
away childish things.” The minister further read from
the 13th verse, “And now abideth faith, hope, love, these
three; but the greatest of these is love.” Again he
read from 2 Cor. 5: 7, “For we walk by faith, not by
sight,” and concluded the reading of the text from Gal.
5: 14, “For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in
this, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.”

19
The minister preached a great sermon. Robert
thought it one of the best he had ever heard and one
which impressed him the most. The minister talked
about the great work of faith and said that faith without
works is dead; but that there could be no faith without
love because love was the greatest of all things. That
God was love, and that love was the fulfilling of the
law, “For God so loved the world that he gave his only
begotten son that whomsoever believeth on Him might
not perish, but have everlasting life.” He added that
God loves children who honor and obey their parents,
wives who love and obey their husbands, husbands who
love and protect their wives, and admonished each man
to love his neighbor as himself. Because love is the law
of harmony, and the power that created the universe,
it is the only power that can prevent destruction, war
and human death, but with true love we can overcome
the last great enemy, death.
When men love each other as God loves them, there
will be no longer any strife or contention. Man will
no longer covet what belongs to his neighbor. True love
will deal justly and do unto others as we wish to have
them do unto us. He preached about the ambitions, the
love of country and patriotism which inspires men to go
to battle and give their lives for the protection of their
home and country. He said, “Greater love hath no man
than this, that he lay down his life for his friend,” and
that a great reward was sure to come to those who love
and obey God. He talked of God’s great command, “If
you love me, keep my commandments.”
This sermon stirred Robert’s ambition as nothing else

20
had ever done before. It made him realize the love
that he owed to his mother, whose great faith and love
had helped to lay the foundation for his future career.
He thought about what the preacher said -- that a man
deserts father and mother to cleave unto his wife, and
that this was as it should be. He had always felt his
greatest love for his mother, but now for the first time
in his life he began to think of love for another woman.
His mind turned toward the many beautiful girls
that he used to meet in Sunday School and those who
were in his class. Robert’s chum, Walter, had already
had a puppy love affair in school with a girl by the
name of Caroline Oglethorpe. Robert had laughed
at Walter about this and thought it was all foolishness.
But now he began to think that maybe there was some-
thing more to love than what he had heretofore believed
it to be. Walter Kennelworth's family being one of
the most wealthy and prominent in Texarkana, they
were at all the social functions, at which Robert met all
the younger set in the city.
A few weeks after the minister had preached this
sermon on charity and love, Robert was in church one
morning, and after Sunday School, was talking with
Caroline Oglethorpe, and with her was her chum, Marie
Stanton. Walter introduced Robert to Marie. Marie
was the daughter of a wealthy and prominent family.
Her father, Colonel Stanton, had made a fortune in
building railroads. He was now a big lumberman, and
one of the most prominent in Texarkana. Marie was
a beautiful young girl of about thirteen years of age
when Robert met her. She was of the true brunette

21
type, with glossy black hair and dark eyes that sparkled
like diamonds.
About this time, Robert began to read novels and love
stories and became very much interested in them, al-
ways taking strong sides with the hero and becoming
very much agitated and aroused against the villain.
He saw Marie frequently after this, as she attended the
same school as Robert and Walter. Every time that
Robert saw Marie, she looked more beautiful to him.
Robert soon began to lose sleep thinking about Marie,
and realized that love was the greatest thing in the
world. He confided his secret to his friend, Walter.
Being very bashful, he had never said anything about
his love to Marie. Finally he made up his mind one
night that he would write her about it, so this is what
he wrote:

Wednesday Eve.

DEAR MARIE,
You probably remember several weeks ago, when I was
introduced to you in church, the sermon that the minister
preached and his text from St. Paul where he said, “The great-
est thing in the world is love.” I agree with St. Paul; that
is why I am writing to you.
I liked you the first time I met you, and every time I have
seen you since, I have liked you more. Now that I know I
love you so much, I feel that I must tell you. I hope that
you are going to love me some day.
Your friend,
ROBERT.

Marie replied to the letter as follows:

DEAR ROBERT,
I received your nice note. This is the first time that anyone
has ever written to me about love and I am all excited over it.

22
I never thought that you liked me, Bobbie. I always thought
that you were making eyes at Kitty Anderson in school. I
do like you and think that you are a nice boy.
Yours,
MARIE.
When Robert read the last line, he felt his heart
jump right up in his throat. His hopes and ambitions
soared higher than they had ever before. He began
to dream of the future with Marie as his wife. He
talked of his plans to Walter, and his hope of being a
great inventor some day and making a lot of money
so that he could marry a wealthy girl like Marie.
The following Sunday, he went home to the country
to see his mother, and told her the story of the new love
affair. “Bobbie,” said his mother, “you are little over
fifteen years old, and this is only puppy love, or what
they call school-boy and school-girl love. It will soon
pass away, but there is no harm in it. Love is a great
thing and some day you will meet the right girl, but
there is no use being in any hurry about it.”
Bobbie told his mother that Marie was the only girl
in the world for him, and that he would live and work
for her; that if he couldn’t marry Marie he never
wanted any other girl. His mother laughed at this and
told him that they all thought that way over the first
love affair, but that after a while, as the years went by
and he met the real one, this would all pass away. How-
ever, she did tell Bobbie that she had never forgotten
her first love, as there is something different about the
first love, even tho it doesn’t last.

23
“Stick to your studies,” said she, “and do not let
your love for Marie interfere with your progress.”
She saw that this love was a great stimulator for
Robert and that his ambitions were greater than ever.
He told his mother that he was going to Sunday School
every Sunday and that he was studying hard, reading
the Bible and learning a lot, and that he was preparing
to be a great man. His mother said, “Bobbie, I have
always had great faith in you, and I know that one
day my dream will come true, and you will do something
that will make me very proud of you.”
In June, 1921, Robert Gordon and Walter Kennel-
worth were in the graduating class. Altho Walter
was one year younger than Robert, his early advantages
enabled him to graduate at fourteen, while Robert was
graduating at the age of fifteen, and would not have
been able to pass all of his examinations except for the
help and assistance rendered him by Walter. Marie
Stanton, who was then thirteen years of age, graduated
the following year.
After Robert graduated, he at first decided to secure
a position and go to work, but after consulting with
Walter, he decided that it would be best to enter High
School and get thru as soon as possible. So in the
Fall of 1921, he and Walter began High School. Here
is where his greatest work began to show forth. He took
a great interest in physics and higher mathematics,
studied day and night, making very high marks in these
studies. Also took an interest in chemistry, which
Walter was specializing in, because he knew that it

24
would be useful to him with his invention, which he
was still talking so much about, and his plans.
The time passed by quickly and in 1924 Robert
Gordon and Walter Kennelworth graduated from High
School in Texarkana with high honors. In the mean-
time, the love affair between Robert and Marie had
continued with the usual interruptions, obstacles and
petty quarrels existing between young people of their
age.
In the Fall of 1924, it was finally decided that Walter
should go to Columbia College in New York to begin
his course. Robert’s parents were unable to finance him
through College, and it was decided that he should go
to work for Mr. Kennelworth in his office. Robert hated
to part with his old friend, Walter, but they thought it
was for the best and talked of the future in New York,
hoping that one day Robert could join Walter there.
In the following year, 1925, Marie Stanton graduated
from High School with the highest of honors. Robert
was at the graduation exercises and thought that Marie
had grown more beautiful every year, and was anxious
for the day to come when he could claim her for his
wife. Soon after her graduation from High School,
there was much talk about the College Marie should
enter. Her father and mother finally decided that she
should go to the Kidd-Key College at Sherman, Texas,
as this was nearby and Marie could go home occa-
sionally.
As the time neared for Marie to go away, Robert be-
came more anxious. He thought Marie would fall in
love with someone else. He talked with her about the

25
future, and for the first time, spoke of marriage. He
talked to her of the difference in their station in life,
and said that his mother thought that a marriage be-
tween a wealthy girl and boy of poor circumstances
could never result in harmony and happiness. He told
Marie the story that the old darky had related on the
fishing trip, about the love affair between the poor coun-
try boy and the wealthy planter’s daughter, and their
tragic death. Marie thought her father would never
consent to their marriage, but she said she really loved
Robert and when the time came, she would elope with
him if necessary. This greatly cheered Robert and
made it easier for him after Marie went away to College.
Love letters passed between them during the first year
she was at college, and all went well. Robert worked
hard in his new position in Mr. Kennelworth’s office.
He was a willing worker, an expert stenographer and
secretary. Robert continued to show expert mechanical
ability and could fix anything that was wrong with an
automobile.
Walter corresponded often with Robert and also wrote
to his father asking how Robert was getting along.
Mr. Kennelworth replied that Robert was making great
progress, that he was a very brilliant boy and he was
going to help him all he could for he thought Robert
had a great future.
1926 was to be one of the most eventful years in the
life of Robert Gordon. In the Spring his father died
suddenly, and after a consultation with his mother, it
was decided that he should leave his position, return
to the farm and help them to get things straightened

26
out. He encountered the usual obstacles and opposition
from his brother, because he knew nothing about farm-
ing and of course did not like it. The result was that
he put all of his savings into helping to make the crop.
While it turned out to be a good crop, the low prices
of cotton in the Fall of 1926 left them in debt.
While on the farm, he contracted malaria fever and
a severe spell of illness followed, during which time he
received many consoling letters from Marie. Soon
after he was able to return to his position with Mr.
Kennelworth, he met with another severe automobile
accident, this time breaking his right arm. This neces-
sitated six weeks in the hospital before he was able to
return to work again. One disappointment followed
another, but Robert had learned to practice patience.
He read the Bible, especially the story of Job, continued
to go to church, and while he was suffering many trials
and tribulations, his mind was expanding. He could
not accept the theory preached and taught by preachers,
because he knew that the things they taught were
wrong.
Marie returned home for her vacation. She was now
eighteen years old, and had grown more beautiful and
began to attract more attention from young men. As
the Kennelworths and Stantons had been friends for
years, Walter suggested to his parents that they give a
party in honor of Marie Stanton. A young man by the
name of Edward Mason, the son of a very wealthy
northern family, was there, and showed marked atten-
tion to Marie. Robert became very jealous and after
the party had a quarrel with her. Then followed long

27
weeks of agony. Many letters passed between Robert
and Marie.
When the end of August drew near and Robert knew
that Marie was to return to school soon, he was anxious
to make up before she went away and wrote the follow-
ing letter:

DEAREST MARIE,
I am very sad. I feel the reason you refuse to make up
with me is because you are in love with Edward Mason. I
have never loved anyone but you and never will. If we are not
reconciled before you go back to school, I fear we never
will be. I am sending you two poems, "Parting" and "Yes-
terday," which express how I feel.
Sorrowfully,
ROBERT.

PARTING

Kiss me! The spell is broken,
The dream we dreamed is gone;
Nothing remains but memory —
Memory, and dawn.
Kiss me! -- and then your hand, dear,
Do you not feel the beat,
The rhythm of our pulses?
It does not spell defeat.
It spells the song that life sings, -
The message of the heart -
Pathways meet but to widen
And lips meet but to part.

28

YESTERDAY
Dreams -- just dreams of yesterday,
When love to me was sweet,
Romance has now gone astray,
No other love will I greet.
It was short -- my little romance,
Short -- but God -- how good!
Went along as smooth as a dance,
Part us? It seemed no one could.
But someone did -- tho' I forgive,
He loved her as did I,
For her only -- did I live,
And now -- for her I'd die!
When Marie received the letter, she replied:
DEAR ROBERT,
Your letter and poems received. You are again accusing
me wrongfully. You are all in the wrong and until you can
see your mistake, I will never think of making up.
Sincerely,
MARIE.
In September, 1926, Marie returned to school at
Sherman, Texas, leaving Robert very much broken-
hearted because she refused to make up. She told
Robert his jealousy was wholly unfounded, but he per-
sisted in accusing her of being in love with Edward
Mason. Feeling this way, she was unable to reconcile
herself and make up, so she went away, disappointed
herself and leaving Robert in the same fix.
Following her return to school, Robert spent many

29
long weeks of anxiety, becoming very blue and dejected.
Many letters passed between them. He wrote much
poetry to Marie, all without avail. Finally, he wrote
a letter and told her that it would be the last; that he
knew she was in love with Edward Mason, and that
there was no use going on.
DEAR MARIE,
This is to be my farewell letter to you, for I have given
up hope. Ever since I first met you, you have been my ideal
and my one inspiration. I have lived for you, worked for
you, thought of nothing else but you. Your love has given
me great encouragement to go on, and now I realize that I
have lost you and that your love has been given to another.
I shall always love you and hope that you will some day
change your mind, and your heart turn to me.
Sorrowfully, your own
With this letter he sent the poems "Loved and Lost"
and "Good-bye.”
DEDICATED TO MARIE:
LOVED AND LOST
It isn't failure to have lost
A girl of whom you have nobly thought,
If buffeted and tempest tossed,
You fail to win the girl you sought.
It isn't failure, though the prize
In another's hand is placed;
A hero very often dies
If dying keeps him undisgraced.

ROBERT.

30
To bow unto a better man
Is not the worst thing I could do,
Success is not in the things we scan,
But in the heart forever true,
It takes more courage for to fail
Than win a girl undeserved.
To bear the taunts of those who rail
Than from your purpose to be swerved.
When a girl frowns darkly
And hope is on the wane
Be constant, true and patient
Defeat will blossom into gain.
If your aim is high and honest
In victory it will tell,
For before the pearl is gotten
There must be a broken shell.
ROBERT.
________________
To MARIE,
GOOD BYE
And now I fly to bear my wound away,
Haply the future heals me of this hurt,
Since, sorely wounded, I still keep today
Mine honor as an armor around me girt.
But these last words, fair lady, bear in mind:
Ere for your sport another heart you break,
Forbear the triumph dear to womankind
And spare your victim, even for my sake.
When Robert had finished this letter, he wrote to his
old chum, Walter Kennelworth, in New York, that he
had written a farewell letter to Marie and that it was
all over. Walter replied:

31
DEAR ROBERT,
I have received your letter filled with gloom. Now, cheer
up, old pal, the sun will shine again and Marie or some other
girl just as good will smile on you. You are too young to
let a girl wreck you. Stick to business and keep up your
studies.
I enclose a poem which I think about fits your case, and
it will probably work out about that way.
With all good wishes,
Your friend,
WALTER.
A BROKEN VOW
It was a broken hearted boy who vowed a solemn vow,
I will not write a letter to that pretty little Editoress anyhow;
I will not do that fearsome thing, I will not pen a jest,
About the beautiful Hostess who mocks the staying guest.
He made a postscript to his vow, he made a codicil,
He was serious as tho he formed his will,
And then he sat down and smiled with all his might
About all the love letters he did not have to write.
But in a day or two he felt exceedingly queer and strange,
A restless something filled his mind, he longed for a change;
He asked the doctor what was wrong, the doctor gave a pill,
And made a memorandum to add twenty to his bill.
Then the pictures of all the girls he knew,
Came flocking to his brain;
Marie's lovely angel face marched sternly in the train,
And each of them and all of them compelled him to think
Just as a man thinks when he quits smoke or drink.
At last a little disappointing note came -- then he said:
Just one more farewell love note I'll write;
It shall not be serious, something fancy and light.

32
He wrote a love letter,
Just as a man who says he has sworn off;
Takes Rock and Rye or some such thing to stop a cough.
But why pursue this sorry tale,
Why tell of what he did;
'Twas like the one more smoke or drink
That throws away the lid.
He wrote of the things she'd wrote and said,
Of memories of sweet caresses that haunted the heart and head;
He wrote of how much better she was than the other girl of
the South,
Of her beautiful eyes and ruby mouth.
He wrote of love for her,
And how well she had served cocoa and consomme;
He wrote of love lost and debauched,
Until the break of day.
And when they came and found him ill
And sought to nurse him thru,
They said, "Here taste this chicken soup
She made, it will be good for you."
Robert became very despondent. He no longer took
an interest in his work. Mr. Kennelworth finally wrote
to Walter in New York, telling him of Robert's lack of
interest in business, and that he wondered what had
brought such a change in him. Walter, of course, had
received letters from Robert about his break with Marie,
so he wrote his father frankly and told him to have
patience with Robert, that when this love affair passed
away, he was sure he would be all right again.
Upon receiving Robert's letter, Marie wrote:

33
MY DEAR ROBERT,
This is to be my farewell letter to you. I quote from Solo-
mon, 2: 5, "Stay me with flagons, comfort me with apples;
for I am sick of love." Robert, I would rather have green
apples and a stomach-ache, like Solomon says, for I am sick
of what you call love. I want you to read St. Paul again,
and see if the way you are acting is the way love acts. Paul
says that "Love suffereth long, and is kind; love envieth not,
doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not
easily provoked, thinketh no evil." Robert, if love is founded
on faith and trust, it cannot be jealous. Love is the founda-
tion of understanding, and if you understood me and if I
thoroughly understood you, we would be in love yet, and
be happy.
"Love seeketh not its own to please
Nor for itself hath any care,
But for another gives its ease
And builds a heaven in hell's despair."
So long as you persist in jealousy and accuse me falsely,
how can I go on loving, because you are not the old Robert
who first loved me and taught me to love all of these years,
and was never jealous before. Love that has been founded on
years of confidence cannot change in a moment for another,
and my love has not changed to Edward Mason, as you think.
I still love you, but you have been wrong in your accusations.
I am sending you a little article, "Love," and hope that
you may some day see how wrong you have been, and when
you do, if you feel that way, write and tell me so.
Regretfully,
MARIE.
LOVE
The spark of love gives more light than the universe of
truth; yet truth is in love, and in order to act the truth, you
must make love the truth, for remember that the handshake

34
of friendship, or the kiss and love of an innocent child, will
do more to lift a soul to the light than the strongest and wisest
argument even when rightly understood.
Beyond the boundaries of love no thought ever passed for
love is everywhere. Love is a prophecy of freedom, and its
song of melody is heard in the rhythmic motion of the ocean.
Each "fowl of the air, each fish of the sea, and every living
thing that moveth upon the earth" is the manifestation of love,
for in their subsistence love has said, "AS I CREATE SO I PRO-
VIDE." Thus in every conceivable thing with form or without,
with harmony or with discord -- there love is manifested.
Love is the life of every plant, of every sunset, of every
soul. It is the inspiration in the happy mind, and the voice
that speaks to us in the time of temptation.
Love is the foundation of all understanding, it transcends
all reasoning, for it is the fulfillment of the greatest.
Love gives faith to all things, for love believeth in its own.
Love symbolizes the everlasting, for it is the spirit of the
beginning, and its wonderful radiance of color decks each
sunrise and sunset.
Love is the breeze that blows away the clouds of doubt
making the landscape of the soul radiant with joy and glad-
ness. Each heart keeps time in unison to the rhythmic har-
monies of love, for each is LOVE in ALL.
Love has thrown into the shapeless void the breath that has
given life to worlds and this vital spark or the life of man,
illuminates the picture that love has painted.

35
CHAPTER IV

WHEN Robert received Marie’s letter, he began
to see himself in a different light. He read
again the Book of Job, and realized what Job meant
when he said, "I had a great fear, and it has come upon
me." Robert realized that he had been fearful of losing
Marie, and that as soon as there seemed to be a possibil-
ity of someone else being attracted to her, that that fear
had come upon him and caused him to become jealous
without cause, and that he had lost or was about to lose,
Marie, who had been more than life to him. So he re-
plied to Marie as follows:
DEAREST MARIE:
Your sweet letter received. It has opened my heart to
understanding and made me see myself as I am. I have read
St. Paul on the greatest thing in the world and find that I
have not been patient, have not been kind or generous. Above
all, I have been jealous without cause. All of these things
are not a part of true love. Paul says, "Faith, Hope and
Love, but the greatest of these is Love." If I had had that
great faith which never faileth and which is founded on love
I would not have been jealous. I have been selfish; have
sought myself to please, and have not thought enough about
you.
I am sending a little poem that I have written, entitled
"The Garden of Love," which I think will express to you
fully just how I feel and how I see things now. I have tried
to enter the Garden of Love through the wrong gate, and

36
now I want to enter it through the right gate. I will be happy
and trusting, loving and thinking only of you.
No more doubts or jealousy will ever be in my mind again,
because love will be there, and these foul weeds can never
remain where love is.
I want you, Marie, and only you. Please forgive and
forget and make me happy again.
With all the love my heart can send, I am
Hopefully,
Your own ROBERT.
DEDICATED TO MARIE STANTON, WHO INSPIRED IT.
THE GARDEN OF LOVE
Many enter the Garden of Love thru the wrong gate
while there really is only one perfect gate. Imagination often
leads us into the wrong path.
SELFISHNESS

We enter thru the gate of Selfishness and immediately
find ourselves in the dark Valley of Doubt where the foul
weeds of deceit, lack of confidence, malice, greed and jealousy
abound. Just on the other side of the Valley of Doubt lies
the Mountain of Jealousy, which springs from lack of faith,
understanding and forgetfulness. From the Mountain of
Jealousy flows the river of Hate which has its source in the
Valley of Doubt. This river leads to the Sea of Unhappiness,
Sorrow, Despair and Death.
UNSELFISHNESS

We now enter the right gate to the Garden of Love, where
we see a golden sign "Unselfishness" which can only lead to
Love. We enter the Garden thru the Gate of Understand-
ing where a beautiful bed of white lilies grow in all their

37
fragrance. Grasp one quickly and carry it thru life, for
these are the lilies of faith which smother out all the foul
weeds in the garden.
Next you will see a fountain of pure water. Touch your
lips to it for it is the Water of Forgetfulness and it feeds the
Lily of Faith. After this you are ready to pass on thru
the Garden and enjoy the flowers which blossom forth nurtured by the Water of Love. Among these are Self-sacrifice,
which is the basis of real love. Then you will find a beautiful
flower that many never see at all, Confidence. It is beautiful
and fragrant and stands near the Flower of Happiness.
You will find the flower of Kindness in full bloom beside
the Rose of Charity, then near the end of the Garden there
is a tiny flower blooming all alone. It is pale and delicate
and few appreciate it until late in life, -- it is Unrewarded
Kindness. But we do reach it just before we pass into the
Vale of Content, and we realize that the path which leads to
Love and Happiness is only found by helping to lead our
fellow travelers thru the Field of Content.
When we have progressed thus far we look for the other
entrance to the Garden and find that the Gate of Selfishness
has disappeared and the Valley of Doubt is now covered with
the Lily of Faith, and the Mountain of Jealousy has been
melted into a Valley of Self-sacrifice. Where the River of
Hate flowed we now find a Sea of Kindness flowing into the
Ocean of Happiness. When we reach the end of the Garden
we find the flower of all flowers, its beauty and radiance far
outshining the noon-day Sun. Seek no further -- it is the
Flower of Love. Place the Lily of Faith beside it, nurture
it with the Water of Kindness and you will have it always.
ROBERT.
This was the letter that won Marie, because she
agreed with St. Paul that love was the greatest thing in
the world. She did not wait to write, but telegraphed
Robert:

38
YOUR SWEET LETTER RECEIVED -- YOU ARE MY OLD ROBERT AND
I AM YOUR MARIE AND ALWAYS WILL BE
MARIE.

Marie then wrote the following letter:
DEAR ROBERT,
I have just wired you because I am happier now than I
have ever been and I know that we are always going to be
happy. You are going to be my ideal Robert, the way that
I want you to be, and I am going to love you and make you
so happy that you'll always be that way.
I knew all along that it was useless for us to make up until
you saw things in the right light and realized that there was
no cause for jealousy and that my long years of devotion
should have proven my love. Until you could see it that way
and make up under those conditions, it would only invite more
trouble later.
There is really nothing more to say, but to let bygones be
bygones, live and love each other and make the future everything we want it to be, because love creates everything and
made the world. God is love.
The little poem you sent, "Loved and Lost," seems very
appropriate now for in it you said that before the pearl is
gotten, there must be a broken shell. You did have the broken
shell, Robert, and now we are going to mend it. I believe that
your aim has been high and honest, and now in future it
will tell.
I can hardly wait to see you, Robert. I want you to come
over next Saturday afternoon, and spend Saturday evening
and Sunday with me. I want to look into your trusting eyes
again and know that you still love me in the same old way.
I want to make you know that I have never loved Edward
Mason or anyone else, but have always loved and trusted you.
With all the love my heart can give, I am
Your

MARIE.

39
P.S. I am enclosing a poem, "The Land of Beginning
Again." We are really going to begin again, aren't we, Robert, and be more happy than ever?
THE LAND OF BEGINNING AGAIN
I wish that there were some wonderful place
Called the Land of Beginning Again,
Where all our mistakes and all our heartaches
And all of our poor, selfish grief
Could be dropped, like a shabby old coat, at the door,
And never put on again.
I wish we could come on it all unaware,
Like the hunter who finds a lost trail;
And I wish that the one whom our blindness had done
The greatest injustice of all
Could be at the gates, like an old friend that waits
For the comrade he's gladdest to hail.
We would find all the things we intended to do
But forgot and remembered -- too late,
Little praises unspoken, little promises broken,
And all of the thousand and one
Little duties neglected that might have perfected
The day for one less fortunate.
It wouldn't be possible not to be kind,
In the Land of Beginning Again;
And the ones we misjudged and the ones whom we grudged
Their moments of victory here
Would find in the grasp of our loving handclasp
More than penitent lips could explain.

40
For what had been hardest we'd know had been best,
And what had seemed loss would be gain;
For there isn't a sting that will not take wing
When we've faced it and laughed it away;
And I think that the laughter is most what we're after
In the Land of Beginning Again!
So I wish that there were some wonderful place
Called the Land of Beginning Again,
Where all our mistakes and all our heartaches
And all of our poor, selfish grief
Could be dropped, like a shabby old coat, at the door,
And never put on again.
LOUISA FLETCHER TARKINGTON.
On a beautiful sunshiny Saturday afternoon on the
23rd of October, 1926, as the train wended its way
across the prairies for Sherman, Texas, Robert kept
watching out of the car window, his face beaming with
smiles as he thought of his meeting with Marie. He
counted every turn of the wheels because he knew they
were bringing him closer to her.
When he arrived in Sherman that night, Marie welcomed him with open arms. They spent Saturday and
Sunday together and were happier than they had ever
been before. He confided to Marie his future plans.
Told her that he was working on an invention, and also
planning to make some money speculating in Stocks and
Commodities. That he hoped to make a lot of money
and prove himself worthy of her, so that her father
would consent to their marriage. That he would return
with all the hope and faith a man could have in a
woman, and with that faith and her love failure was
impossible, as there wasn't anything in the world he

41
couldn't do. Marie assured him of her faith and confidence. So long as he had that faith and her love,
she knew he could do great things. Said she would
willingly wait until he made a success.
After Robert returned, he began to study the Bible
more than ever, and work out things according to
science. He read the Book of Ezekiel, and planned on
building an airplane along the lines outlined by Ezekiel.
Figured that there must be a way to build a plane of
this kind which would be the greatest ever, and felt that
the day was coming when his country would need the
protection of the greatest invention of the age. From
reading of the Bible, war seemed inevitable, and Robert
believed that the next war would be in the air.
He began to read all the magazines along the lines of
science and invention and studied the Bible in order to
understand natural law and know how to apply it.
Robert wrote to Walter telling him that he had been
to Sherman to see Marie, that they had made up and
that he was supremely happy. He confided to Walter
his hopes of a great discovery and told him that with
the love of Marie and her faith in him there was nothing
he could not do.
He had figured out from the Bible that a time of
trouble such as the world had never seen would begin in
1927, and would continue until 1932. There would be
war, famine and pestilence all over the earth, and that
except the time be shortened every human being on the
face of the earth would be destroyed according to the
Bible. He was anxious to make money to complete his
invention to protect his own country because he knew

42
that the United States was yet to face the greatest war
in history, and every nation would rise against us. The
great gold supply that was gathered by the United States
from the beginning of the great World War had caused
commercial jealousy of all other nations and it would
only be a short time before we were at war. Unless
we were prepared with modern inventions we were going to lose the next war. He knew what was coming
and wanted to prepare to meet the emergency that was
to come.
Many letters passed between Robert and Marie during the latter part of 1926. Her letters of love and encouragement helped Robert to make progress in his
work. He saved his money and planned for their
future.
Christmas, 1926, was the happiest that Robert had
ever known and wanting Marie to share it with him he
sent her a beautiful ring, wrote her that he had saved
his money and was now in position to buy it. The diamond, he said, represented purity, firmness and faith
and symbolized all those things in her and his great
trust in her. He told her that he was anxious to get in
shape to go to New York to continue his studies, and
work and make money and be near his old chum, Walter, who had always been a great comfort to him and
encouraged him in so many ways.
In thanking Robert for the ring, Marie wrote that
so long as she lived, she would wear it in honor of him,
and as an emblem of faith and trust in the greatest
man in the world. That she knew there was nothing
he could not do. The little poem entitled, "It Can Be

43
Done," which she sent along was a great inspiration
to Robert when trials, troubles and obstacles arose in
the years that followed.
IT CAN BE DONE
Somebody said that it couldn't be done,
But he, with a chuckle, replied
That maybe it couldn't, but he would be one
Who wouldn't say so till be tried.
So he buckled right in, with the trace of a grin
On his face. If he worried, he hid it,
He started to sing as he tackled the thing
That couldn't be done, and he did it.
Somebody scoffed: "Oh, you'll never do that:
At least it has never been done,"
But he took off his coat and he took off his hat,
And the first thing we knew he'd begun it,
With the lift of his chin, and a bit of a grin,
Without any doubting or quiddit,
He started to sing as he tackled the thing
That couldn't be done, and he did it.
There are thousands to tell you it cannot be done,
There are thousands to prophesy failure;
There are thousands to point out to you, one by one,
The dangers that wait to assail you;
But just buckle in with a bit of a grin,
Then take off your coat and go to it;
Just start in to sing as you tackle the thing,
That cannot be done and you'll do it.
On the 1st day of January, 1927, Robert received a
beautiful letter of commendation from his employer,

44
Mr. Kennelworth, in which was enclosed a check for
$500 as a bonus, and also notice of an advance in his
salary of $50 a month. This was very gratifying to
Robert, because he felt that he was making progress,
and that a man who had made the great success that
Mr. Kennelworth had, must have been watching him
closer than he thought. He thought that Mr. Kennelworth had seen something in him worthy of advancement, so he only worked harder to show his appreciation. He wrote a letter to his friend Walter in New
York telling him of his father’s generosity and how
much he appreciated it now that he was working, planning and saving his money, hoping to be with Walter
in New York soon where he could start speculating and
make a lot of money so that he could complete his great
invention and do something to benefit the world.
Robert wrote Marie of this good fortune which had
come to him in the new year and how it had stimulated
his hopes to greater things in the future. He was sure
that with her love, he would continue and accomplish
every desire that he had hoped for. Marie wrote him
beautiful letters of encouragement, filled with love and
admiration for the man that she was living for, -- her
ideal. She told him that she was making great progress
with her studies and hoped to graduate in a few years
and be an honor to him and assist him in his work. She
sent a little poem, entitled: "Act the Man and Face
It Out."

45
ACT THE MAN AND FACE IT OUT
Should life's storms be blowing gusty, or the road be hot and
dusty,
Don't give up and pull a face all glum and blue;
Cheer up, man, and tackle trouble. If your efforts you redouble
There'll be brighter days ahead awaiting you.
Where's the use of whining, moaning, or of wasting time in
droning
Never yet have such things pulled a fellow thru,
When you've trouble you must meet it, that's the proper way
to treat it,
Always bear in mind results depend on you.
Never heed the whiner's chatter, 'tis right deeds that matter,
That will pierce the clouds -- the roughest pathway span,
Every trouble is made lighter, and you'll find your outlook
brighter
If you tackle things and face them like a man.
If you mean to conquer trouble, you must take it at the double.
You must act the man and face the matter out;
Tackle trouble, gamely fight it. Shirking it will never right it,
Face it bravely, and your trouble you will rout.
Tid Bits.
Marie wrote of her plans for the future. How she
hoped to live to see him the greatest man in the world;
how she wanted to one day bring him before her father
and show him what her love and confidence in a poor
boy had done for him. She wanted her father to be
proud of Robert as she was. After all the success she

46
wanted them to be able to enjoy the closing years of
their lives in peace and quiet together, where they could
reminisce over the trials, troubles and obstacles overcome which had led to the victory which is always the
fruit of true and lasting love. Here follows a poem -"After the Years -- Quiet."
AFTER THE YEARS -- QUIET
At last -- after the years have wrought their will,
Go build a house of solace for thyself;
With things that pleasure thee its rooms upfill -Turn thy soft light; a rosejar on thy shelf.
Have there the books thou wilt not read again,
So well thou knowest all of their magic old;
Have there the lute that silent shall remain,
Thy heart all music from its tones of gold.
And dream beside thy fire; dream of the guest
That cometh now no more -- yet he is there,
If so thy soul would shape him, and thy rest
And dream -- within a dream with thee will share.
Have there all things thou countest as thine own;
And what thou wouldst have had -- there let it be.
But what thou wouldst not let it pass unknown,
After the years have wrought their will on thee.
And take no more a burden on thy heart,
Wrestling -- if this be good -- if that be ill;
And strive no more to better what thou art;
With consolation thy whole being fill.

47
And so with quiet lapping thee around,
A presence like a God's thy house shall fill,
But question not thereof nor even pray,
For importuning words such joy might mill.
Build thee that house of solace -- out of sight;
A charm above the door and on the sill,
And trouble shall go by thee. 'Tis thy right -At last -- after the years have wrought their will.
EDITH M. THOMAS.
Robert sent Marie an article entitled, "A Standard"
by Christian D. Larson. He told her that this was going
to be his standard for the future, and that following
this standard with her love and faith he would accomplish everything that she hoped for him to.
A STANDARD
To be so strong that nothing can disturb your peace of mind.
To make all your friends see that there is something in them.
To look at the funny side of everything and make your optimism come true.
To think only of the best, to work only for the best, and to
expect only the best.
To be just as enthusiastic about the success of others as you
are about your own.
To forget the mistakes of the past and press on to the greater
achievements of the future.
To wear a cheerful countenance at all times and give every
living creature you meet a smile.
To give so much time to the improvement of yourself that
you have no time to criticize others.
To be too large for worry, too noble for anger, too strong
for fear; and too happy to permit the presence of
trouble.

48
To think well of yourself and to proclaim this face to the
world, not in loud words but in great deeds.
To live in the faith that the whole world is on your side so
long as you are true to the best that is in you.
CHRISTIAN D. LARSON.
Marie continued to write him encouraging letters
from time to time. Their love affair continued smooth
with no troubles or interruptions. Marie was a great
reader and was studying carefully, always collecting
poems and articles which she thought would help and
encourage Robert. One was entitled:
"WHY THE SAINTS WERE SAINTS"
Because they were cheerful when it was hard to be cheerful;
And patient when it was hard to be patient;
And because they pushed on when they wanted to stand still;
And kept silent when they wanted to talk,
And were agreeable when they wanted to be disagreeable.
AUTHOR UNKNOWN.
and also another one by Herbert Kaufman, reading
as follows:
Don't let busy-bodies turn you from the path you have selected,
Incredulity and unbelief are quite to be expected,
What if butters-in do scold you?
What if fools try to remold you?
If you aren't streaked with yellow such
Discouragement won't hold you.
Some will doubt you.
Lots will flout you.

49
More than one will lie about you.
They'll deride you
And decide you.
Need an "Older" hand to guide you.
Do not listen to the croakers -- fight it out once you have commenced it.
If you meet with opposition simply run your head against it.
All big things that we know about were won by self-believers.
Quitters, never have been, nor can they be, achievers.
HERBERT KAUFMAN.

50
CHAPTER V

MARIE'S love and devotion for Robert were bear-
ing fruit. He studied the day and night, 
worked on his plans for the future and continued his
investigation of science, for he believed that the Bible
was the key to the process by which man may know all
there is to know. He realized that by studying it he
might be able to forecast the future and benefit himself
thereby. Above all things he was interested in airplanes, inventing and improving an airplane that would
be useful in the future wars. He had found the plan
for a great airplane in Ezekiel 1: 4-16:
And I looked, and behold, a whirlwind came out of the
north, a great cloud, and a fire infolding itself, and a brightness was about it, and out of the midst thereof as the colour
of amber, out of the midst of the fire.
Also out of the midst thereof came the likeness of four
living creatures. And this was their appearance; they had
the likeness of a man.
And one had four faces, and every one had four wings.
And their feet were straight feet; and the sole of their
feet was like the sole of a calf's foot; and they sparkled like
the colour of burnished brass.
And they had the hands of a man under their wings on
their four sides; and they four had their faces and their wings.
Their wings were joined one to another; they turned not
when they went; they went every one straight forward.
As for the likeness of their faces, they four had the face

51
of a man, and the face of a lion on the right side; and they
four had the face of an ox on the left side; they four also
had the face of an eagle.
Thus were their faces; and their wings were stretched upward; two wings of every one were joined one to another;
and two covered their bodies.
And they went every one straight forward; whither the
spirit was to go; they went; and they turned not when they
went.
As for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance
was like burning coals of fire, and like the appearance of
lamps: it went up and down among the living creatures; and
the fire was bright, and out of the fire went forth lightning.
And the living creatures ran and returned as the appearance of a flash of lightning.
Now, as I beheld the living creatures, behold, one wheel
upon the earth by the living creatures, with his four faces.
The appearance of the wheels and their work was like
unto the colour of a beryl; and they four had one likeness:
and their appearance and their work was as it were a wheel
in the middle of a wheel.
Robert felt sure that this was the prediction and description of an airplane that Ezekiel was talking about.
He thought that an airplane could be built with four
wings, which would be more powerful and useful than
any of the airplanes yet built. It was his great desire
to build an airplane of this kind.
Robert read Ezekiel 5: 2 and 12:
Thou shalt burn with fire a third part in the midst of the
city, when the days of the siege are fulfilled; and thou shalt
take a third part, and smite about it with a knife; and a third
part thou shalt scatter in the wind; and I will draw but a
sword after them.
A third part of thee shall die with the pestilence, and with

52
famine shall they be consumed in the midst of thee; and a
third part shall fall by the sword round about thee; and I
will scatter a third part into all the winds, and I will draw
out a sword after them.
Also Ezekiel 7: 2 and 12:
Also, thou son of man, thus saith the Lord God unto the
land of Israel. An end, the end is come upon the four corners
of the land.
The time is come, the day draweth near; let not the buyer
rejoice, nor the seller mourn; for wrath is upon all the multitude thereof.
Robert thought he saw in this the coming war and
famine on the earth from the cycle, that a greater
portion of the earth would be destroyed by war and
famine, and that the end was near. Ezekiel 7: 13:
For the seller shall not return to that which is sold, although
they were yet alive; for the vision is touching the whole multitude thereof, which shall not return; neither shall any
strengthen himself in the iniquity of his life.
Ezekiel 8: 1 and 14:
And it came to pass in the sixth year, in the sixth month,
in the fifth day of the month, as I sat in mine house, and
the elders of Judah sat before me, that the hand of the Lord
God fell there upon me.
Then he brought me to the door of the gate of the Lord's
house which was toward the north; and behold, there sat
women weeping for Tammuz.
Ezekiel 10: 9-11:
And when I looked, behold, the four wheels by the cherubims, one wheel by one cherub, and another wheel by another

53
cherub: and the appearance of the wheels was as of the
colour of a beryl stone.
And as for their appearances, they four had one likeness,
as if a wheel had been in the midst of a wheel.
When they went, they went upon their four sides; they
turned not as they went, but to the place whither the head
looked they followed it; they turned not as they went.
Robert felt sure that it was an airplane which Ezekiel
was talking about and which was going to be made in
the future. He thought the one referred to with "the
face of an eagle" referred to the United States Government. He hoped to build some day and help win the
great war in the air and make peace when the days of
the "End" come and the great air battles would be
fought. Ezekiel 10: 19 and 21:
And the cherubims lifted up their wings, and mounted up
from the earth in my sight; when they went out, the wheels
also were beside them; and every one stood at the door of
the east gate of the Lord's house; and the glory of the God
of Israel was over them above.
Every one had four faces apiece, and every one four wings;
and the likeness of the hands of a man was under their wings.
Ezekiel 12: 22:
Son of man, what is that proverb that ye have in the land
of Israel, saying, The days are prolonged, and every vision
faileth?
Ezekiel 14: 14, 16 and 21:
Though these three men, Noah, Daniel and Job, were in it,
they should deliver but their own souls by their righteousness,
saith the Lord God.
Though these three men were in it, as I live, saith the Lord

54
God, they shall deliver neither sons nor daughters; they only
shall be delivered, but the land shall be desolate.
For thus saith the Lord God. How much more when I send
my four judgments upon Jerusalem, the sword, and the famine, and the noisome beast, and the pestilence, to cut off from
it man and beast.
Ezekiel 16: 1 and 44:
Again the word of the Lord came unto me, saying,
Behold, every one that useth proverbs shall use this proverb against thee, saying, As is the mother, so is her daughter.
Ezekiel 17: 3 and 7:
And say, Thus saith the Lord God, A great eagle with great
wings, long-winged, full of feathers, which had divers colours,
came unto Lebanon, and took the highest branch of the cedar:
There was also another great eagle with great wings and
many feathers; and, behold, this vine did bend her roots
toward him, and shot forth her branches toward him, that
he might water it by the furrows of her plantation.
Ezekiel 20: 46:
Son of man set thy face toward the south, and drop thy
word toward the south, and prophesy against the forest of
the south field:
Robert interpreted this to mean that the day was
coming when there would be a great air fight from the
southern part of the United States. Ezekiel 20: 47:
And say to the forest of the south, Hear the word of the
Lord, Thus saith the Lord God, Behold, I will kindle a fire
in thee, and it shall devour every green tree in thee, and
every dry tree; the flaming flame shall not be quenched, and
all faces from the south to the north shall be burned therein.

55
He thought this meant the South would be destroyed
by airplanes with liquid fire and poisonous chemicals
when the war would take place.
Robert read Ezekiel 21: 14, 26 and 30:
Thou, therefore, son of man, prophesy, and smite thine
hands together, and let the sword be doubled the third time,
the sword of the slain; it is the sword of the great men that
are slain, which entereth into their privy chambers.
Thus saith the Lord God, Remove the diadem, and take off
the crown; this shall not be the same; exalt him that is low,
and abase him that is high.
Shall I cause it to return into his sheath? I will judge
thee in the place where thou wast created, in the land of
the nativity.
Ezekiel 28: 3:
Behold thou art wiser than Daniel; there is no secret that
they can hide from thee:
Robert had great faith in the prophecies of Ezekiel
because the Lord said: "Behold, thou art wiser than
Daniel. There is no secret that they can hide from
thee." He understood from Ezekiel's prophecies that
a great war was coming and that it would be fought in
the air by the great airplanes as described by Ezekiel
32: 1 and 2:
And it came to pass in the twelfth year, in the twelfth
month, in the first day of the month, that the word of the
Lord came unto me, saying,
Son of man, take up a lamentation for Pharaoh king of
Egypt, and say unto him, Thou art like a young lion of the
nations, and thou art as a whale in the seas; and thou
camest forth with thy rivers, and troubledst the waters with
thy feet, and fouledst their rivers.

56
From these predictions of Ezekiel and others in the
Bible which Robert believed was a repetition of previous battles, he interpreted it to mean that there was
to be a great flood during the year 1927. He predicted
terrible floods along the Mississippi Valley, which would
destroy the cotton crops and would lay waste vast acres
of fertile land. He wrote that it would be one of the
greatest floods in history. Ezekiel 32: 7:
And when I shall put thee out, I will cover the heaven, and
make the stars thereof dark; I will cover the sun with a
cloud, and the moon shall not give her light.
Robert understood this to mean the two great eclipses
that would occur in June, 1927.
Ezekiel 33: 21 and 33:
And it came to pass in the twelfth year of our captivity,
in the tenth month, in the fifth day of the month, that one
that had escaped out of Jerusalem came unto me, saying, The
City is smitten.
And when this cometh to pass, (lo, it will come) then shall
they know that a prophet hath been among them.
Robert felt that he knew the Scriptures and was prepared to prophesy the future and warn the people of
the famine, pestilence and the coming war.
Ezekiel 35: 1 and 8:
Moreover, the word of the Lord came unto me, saying,
And I will fill his mountains with his slain men: in thy
hills, and in thy valleys, and in all thy rivers, shall they
fall that are slain with the sword.
Ezekiel 36: 1 and 34:
Also, thou son of man, prophesy unto the mountains of

57
Israel, and say, Ye mountains of Israel, hear the word of the
Lord.
And the desolate land shall be tilled, whereas it lay desolate in the sight of all that passed by.
Ezekiel 37: 9, 16, 17, 19 and 22:
Then said he unto me, Prophesy unto the wind, prophesy, son
of man, and say to the wind, Thus saith the Lord God, Come
from the four winds, O Breath, and breathe upon these slain,
that they may live,
Moreover, thou son of man, take thee one stick, and write
upon it, For Judah, and for the children of Israel his companions: then take another stick and write upon it, For
Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and for all the house of Israel
his companions:
And join them one to another into one stick; and they shall
become one in thine hand.
Say unto them, Thus saith the Lord God, Behold, I will
take the stick of Joseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim,
and the tribes of Israel his fellows, and will put them with
him, even with the stick of Judah, and make them one stick,
and they shall be one in mine hand.
And I will make them one nation in the land upon the mountains of Israel; and one king shall be king to them all and
they shall be no more two nations, neither shall they be
divided into two kingdoms, any more at all.
Robert interpreted this to mean the coming of the
great war when the United States should be the one
great nation that would rule the world; that there
would be no more divided kingdoms and no more divided countries, that it would be the United States of
the World, which would be the land of liberty where
freedom exists.

58
Ezekiel 38: 19:
For in my jealousy and in the fire of my wrath, have I
spoken, Surely in that dav there shall be a great shaking in
the land of Israel.
Robert understood -- "the jealousy in the fire of
wrath" -- to mean chemical elements which would be
used in the coming war and the use of airplanes.
Ezekiel 39: 2:
And I will turn thee back, and leave but the sixth part of
thee, and will cause thee to come up from the north parts, and
will bring thee upon the mountains of Israel.
Robert's interpretation of this was that the last great
battle of the war was to be fought in the northern
part of the United States.
Ezekiel 39: 8 and 9:
Behold, it is come, and it is done, saith the Lord God; this
is the day whereof I have spoken.
And they that dwell in the cities of Israel shall go forth,
and shall set on fire and burn the weapons, both the shields
and the bucklers, the bows and the arrows, and the handstaves
and the spears, and they shall burn them with fire seven years.
He thought the 9th verse where it says that everything should be burnt with fire seven years, meant
either seven years of war, or seven days. He had read
where it says, "I will appoint a day for a year and a
year for a day."
Ezekiel 39: 11, 12 and 14:
And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will give unto
Gog a place there of graves in Israel, the valley of the passengers of the east of the sea; and it shall stop the noses of

59
the passengers; and there shall they bury Gog, and all his
multitude; and they shall call it, The Valley of Hamon-gog.
And seven months shall the house of Israel be burying of
them, that they may cleanse the land.
And they shall sever out men of continual employment,
passing through the land to bury with the passengers those
that remain upon the face of the earth, to cleanse it; after
the end of seven months shall they search.
Robert thought all this referred to the war yet to
come, in which the United States was to play the final
and principal part, and the use of the airplanes should
reach its greatest perfection.
Ezekiel 43: 1, 2, 3, 4 and 10:
Afterward he brought me to the gate, even the gate that
looketh toward the east:
And, behold, the glory of the God of Israel came from the
way of the east, and his voice was like a noise of many waters:
and the earth shined with his glory.
And it was according to the appearance of the vision that
I saw when I came to destroy the city; and the visions were
like the vision that I saw by the river Chebar: and I fell upon
my face.
And the glory of the Lord came into the house, by the way
of the gate whose prospect is toward the east.
Thou son of man, shew the house to the house of Israel,
that they may be ashamed of their iniquities; and let them
measure the pattern.
Ezekiel 44: 1, 4, 5 and 26:
Then he brought me back the way of the gate of the outward sanctuary, which looketh toward the east, and it was
shut.
Then brought he me the way of the north gate before the
house; and I looked, and, behold, the glory of the Lord filled
the house of the Lord; and fell upon my face.

60
And the Lord said unto me, Son of man, mark well, and
behold with thine eyes, and hear with thine ears, all that I
say unto thee concerning all the ordinances of the house of
the Lord, and all the laws thereof; and mark well the entering in of the house, with every going forth of the sanctuary.
And after he is cleansed they shall reckon unto him seven
days.
Robert thought this referred to the last seven days
at the end of the Great War in the Air.
Ezekiel 45: 25:
In the seventh month, in the fifteenth day of the month,
shall he do the like in the feast of the seven days, according to
the sin offering, and according to the meat offering, and according to the oil.
Robert thought this referred to the 15th day of July,
1932.
Ezekiel 46: 1, 2 and 17:
Thus saith the Lord God, The gate of the inner court that
looketh toward the east shall be shut the six working days;
but on the sabbath it shall be opened, and in the day of the
new moon it shall be opened.
And the prince shall enter by way of the porch of that
gate without, and shall stand by the post of the gate, and
the priests shall prepare his burnt offering and his peace
offerings, and he shall worship at the threshold of the gate:
then he shall go forth; but the gate shall not be shut until
the evening.
But if he give a gift of his inheritance to one of his servants, then it shall be his to the year of liberty; after it shall
return to the prince; but his inheritance shall be his son's for
them.
Ezekiel 47: 5, 6, 8 and 9:
Afterward he measured a thousand; and it was a river that

61
I could not pass over: for the waters were risen, waters to
swim in, a river that could not be passed over.
And he said unto me, Son of man, hast thou seen this?
then he brought me, and caused me to return to the brink of
the river.
Then said he unto me, These waters issue out toward the
east country, and go down into the desert, and go into the
sea: which being brought forth into the sea, the waters shall
be healed.
And it shall come to pass, that everything that liveth, which
moveth, whithersoever, the rivers shall come, shall live: and
there shall be a very great multitude of fish, because these
waters shall come thither: for they shall be healed; and everything shall live whither the river cometh.
Ezekiel 48: 14 and 15:
And they shall not sell of it, neither exchange, nor alienate
the first fruits of the land: for it is holy unto the Lord.
And the five thousand that are left in the breadth, over
against the five and twenty thousand, shall be a profane place
for the city, for dwelling, and for suburbs; and the city shall
be in the midst thereof.

62
CHAPTER VI

Robert wrote to Walter in New York and told
him about his plans for the future; how well
he was getting along, about his new discoveries and how
he had worked out the future from the Bible. He asked
Walter's advice about sending an article to Walter's
father in regard to his future predictions based on the
Bible. Walter thought it the opportune time, in view
of the fact that his father had confidence in Robert.
After he had worked out his cycle theory according
to the Bible, and decided that he could forecast the
markets and make money, he wrote to Mr. Kennelworth,
his employer.
Texarkana, Texas.
January 15, 1927.
Mr. J. H. Kennelworth,
Texarkana,
Texas.
MY DEAR MR. KENNELWORTH:
I want you to know how much I appreciate the bonus
you gave me on the 1st of the year. While I want to use it wisely,
together with a little other money I have saved, I feel it is
my duty to tell you what I intend to do with it.
I have been studying the Bible night and day for many
years, and I believe that I have found in it the key to all
prophecy, -- the rules foretelling the events in the history of
the country, the progress in invention, and also rules for forecasting the future of stocks and commodities. I have been

63
reading some books and studying commodities and stocks and
have applied the rules as I understand them from the Bible.
I feel sure that I am able to foretell what is going to happen
in stocks and commodities, and I am very anxious to make
some money out of it so that I can go to New York and join
Walter there, where I will have greater advantages and can
study and experiment with some inventions which I have in
mind.
From the teachings of the Bible and the methods which I
have worked out, I feel confident that the price of cotton is
going very high this Spring. I figure that there are going to
be some heavy floods along the Mississippi River, and that
there will be a late, wet Spring, and that the demand for cotton will greatly increase, helping to put prices very high.
Therefore, I have decided to use the $500.00 which you gave
me and another $500.00 which I have saved up, to buy cotton
to hold for the Spring and Summer. I would like to have
your opinion of this venture.
Assuring you of my appreciation of your advice, I am
Sincerely yours,
ROBERT GORDON.
About this time Mr. J. H. Kennelworth received the
following letter from his son, Walter, in New York:
New York City,
January 12, 1927.
DEAR FATHER:
I have just received a letter from my good friend, Robert,
and he tells me that he is anxious to join me in New York in
a few months, that he has figured out some new discoveries
and inventions from the Bible, and that he wants to do some
speculating in order to make some money. He asked my
opinion of putting before you some of his discoveries and
getting your opinion on them. I wrote him that I was sure
he would find a sympathetic listener in you and advised him
to put his plans frankly before you.

64
Father, I hope that you will give Robert your best advice
and co-operation because I have great faith in him. He is
a brilliant boy and is going to have a great future. He is
loyal and honest, you know, and a hard worker, and I would
hate to see him leave your employ. At the same time I would
like to see him in New York as soon as possible.
I am getting along nicely with my studies, and hope to
graduate in a couple of years.
Give my love to mother, and all,
Your son,
WALTER.
When Mr. Kennelworth received Robert's letter, he
dictated the following reply to his stenographer:
MY DEAR ROBERT:
Your very interesting letter received. I have the greatest
faith in your ability and believe that if anyone can work out
anything valuable from the Bible, you can do it. I have
watched very carefully your persistency, and am much impressed with your loyalty and determination. It is admirable
the confidence and faith that you have in yourself, as well
as having great confidence in the greatest book of all, The
Holy Bible.
But when it comes to speculation, Robert, I want to give
you some advice from my experience. It is a very dangerous
game. It may be inviting, but it is not a business, Robert. It
is a gamble. Of course I know that some men make it a
business. Most men cannot control themselves when they get
into it, the result -- they gamble, and in the end, lose all.
I will give you a little experience that I had. I went to
New York many years ago, and on advice and information
from some friends of mine, was induced to buy some oil
stock. This was in the Fall of 1919. Oil stocks advanced
rapidly, and along in October, my friends advised me to buy
more. I had some handsome profits and did buy more. I
confess that I knew nothing about oil stocks or any other

65
stocks, but simply followed my friends' advice in buying them.
In November, 1919, the market smashed all to pieces, and the
oil stocks declined 50 to 100 points. I had big profits at the
top, but before the break was over, I not only lost all of my
profits, but about $50,000 or $60,000 of my capital.
This taught me a lesson. I had made my money in the
lumber business and in railroading. I had now gone into
something that I knew nothing about and suffered a heavy
loss. My friends and brokers tried to induce me to hold on
and put up more margin; said that I would eventually come
out all right, but I took the loss and charged it up to experience. Had I held on to these stocks, I would have lost my
entire fortune, because they continued to go down during
1920 and 1921, and were 50 to 60 points lower than where I
sold out. So you can see, Robert, what a costly experience
this would have been and how wise I was to stop in time.
The best advice that I can give you is, to stop before you
start. You will save time and worry, aside from the loss of
what little money you have saved up. I want to encourage
and help you in every way possible, and I feel that I am
helping you in giving you advice of this kind.
Wishing you all success in your studies, I am
Yours very truly,
J. H. KENNELWORTH.
Robert's second letter to Mr. Kennelworth:
January 24, 1927.
MY DEAR MR. KENNELWORTH:
I have read your letter with a great deal of interest. I
appreciate your fatherly advice and know that you have my
interest at heart. I appreciate your telling me of your experience in speculation and know that this can be the only result
where people only guess at the market, or follow tips. I have
secured some books from New York and read a great deal
about the market, and I feel that I already know that there are
many pitfalls in the game of speculation, but if it can be made

66
a science and followed according to the rules laid down in
the Bible, success and profits are sure.
Sir William Crookes said: "To stop short in any research
which bids fair to widen the gates of knowledge, to recoil
from fear of difficulties or adverse criticism, is to bring reproach upon science." I feel that I have my own life to live;
that I must have faith in myself and above all, have the
faith which is instilled in me through the study of the Bible.
I must neither fear difficulties nor criticism. I must put my
theories and my discoveries to the test. The only way that I
can do that, is to follow what I think is right.
I have already made arrangements and sent my money to
a broker in New York, and have today bought 200 bales of
July cotton at 13.80. I am going to hold this cotton. If it
goes up, as I am sure it will this Spring and Summer, as my
profits accumulate, I am going to buy more on the way up.
I believe in what the Bible says:
"Prove all things and hold fast to that which is good."
Jacob said:
"I have read in the tables of heaven whatsoever things
shall befall both of you and your children."
I believe in the stars, I believe in astrology, and I have figured
out my destiny. The Bible makes it plain that the stars do
rule. 147th Psalm, 4th verse:
"He tellest the number of the stars, he callest them all
by name.
Dante said:
"Follow thy star -- thou shalt see at last a glorious haven."
Napoleon and many other great leaders of olden times followed their stars, and believed in them.
Mr. Kennelworth, I have gained a great deal of knowledge
by following the Bible. I have gone into secret places to
pray, and have kept my discoveries to myself. I believe in
the saying:

67
"In silence, by silence, through silence were all things
made."
Daniel makes it clear that the stars influence:
"And he changeth the times and the seasons: he removeth kings, and setteth up kings: he giveth wisdom
unto the wise, and knowledge to them that know understanding."
"He revealeth the deep and secret things: he knoweth
what is in the darkness, and the light dwelleth with
him."
I have followed the teachings and admonitions of Solomon, and realize that knowledge is the greatest of all things.
I have tried to get understanding and believe that I have
received it from the Bible, and that I must use it.
I refer to Daniel:
"And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven
set up a kingdom which shall never be destroyed: and
the kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it
shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms,
and it shall stand forever."
Mr. Kennelworth, I believe this prophesy is yet to be fulfilled. I believe that the United States is the kingdom which
is never to be destroyed; that we will eventually see the
United States of the World, and that this country, which is
the land of love and liberty, will rule wisely all other nations.
I quote from Daniel:
"And whereas they commanded to leave the stump of
the tree roots; thy kingdom shall be sure unto thee,
after that thou shalt have known that the heavens do
rule."
I have demonstrated this to mean that the planets rule our
destinies. It is right for us to understand them as Daniel did
and interpret the secret and hidden things.
I believe the wise men of the East, the astrologists before
the birth of Jesus Christ, knew where and when he would be
born by the study of the stars. St. Matthew, Chapter 2: 2 --

68
"Saying, Where is he that is born King of the Jews?
for we have seen his star in the east, and are come
to worship him."
This shows to me that the wise men believed that certain stars
arising would indicate a great man would be born, a savior
of the world. St. Matthew, Chapter 6: 6 and 8 -"But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and
when thou hast shut the door, pray to thy Father,
which is in secret; and thy Father, which seeth in
secret, shall reward thee openly."
"Be not ye therefore like unto them: for your Father
knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask
him."
I have prayed and studied in secret, and I believe I am going
to receive my reward. I believe that our heavenly Father,
the ruler and maker of this universe, does know our needs,
and that he gives us understanding according to the way we
would receive it.
I was much impressed when I read St. Matthew 6: 33 -"But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you."
I have sought that kingdom and I have found it where the
good book says it is: "The kingdom of heaven is within you."
Again the good book says:
"If ye believe in me, greater things than these shall
ye do."
I believe that I can and will do great things.
Ever since I was a small boy, and used to kneel at my
mother's knee, and she taught me first to pray, I have believed
in that great book and in God's power to guide me right and
give me understanding of all things. My own father never
understood me or had any sympathy with me or my ideas,
which I feel were far advanced. My own brother was my
worst enemy, and I find that the Bible bears me out in this
"And a man's foes shall be they of his own household."

69
My father and brother opposed me because they did not understand me.
I firmly believe that the Bible and the Scriptures contain
the key to all knowledge, and that all a man has to do is to
seek and he shall find, knock and it shall be opened unto him.
I believe it is best for me to go away to New York as soon
as I can, away from my own people, for the good book says:
"A prophet is not without honor, save in his own country, and in his own house."
The Bible points the way to read the signs and the stars.
St. Matthew 12: 38, 39 and 40 -"Then certain of the scribes and Pharisees answered,
saying, Master, we would see a sign from thee."
"But he answered and said unto them, An evil and
adulterous generation seeketh after a sign; and there
shall no sign be given to it, but the sign of the prophet
Jonas:"
"For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the
whale's belly; so shall the Son of man be three days
and three nights in the heart of the earth."
I have read the Book of Jonah thru very carefully, and I
believe that I understand what the Saviour meant when he
said:
"No sign shall be given, but the sign of the prophet
Jonas."
I believe there was a secret meaning in what he said; that
the Son of man be three days and three nights in the heart
of the earth. I believe that a man who understands the meaning of that has all the power under heaven and earth, as the
Bible says he shall have. I believe that that is the key to
the interpretation of the future. I am sure I have found it
and know how to apply it.
I do not wish to burden you further with this long letter,
Mr. Kennelworth. I am very much interested in my work

70
on future cycles, and if you are interested in what I can work
out on the future cycles, I will be glad to send them to you
and let you watch them. I have figured out the repetition of
each cycle when wars will come. I believe that the wheat
prices forecast coming wars. Through my study of the Bible,
I have determined the major and minor time factors which
repeat in the history of nations, men and markets.
I trust that you will understand me and not feel that I do
not appreciate your advice when I started speculating. If
my new discoveries work, as I hope they will, I look forward
to the day when you can join me in a great campaign for
making money.
Assuring you of my deep appreciation of all your kind advice, I
am
Sincerely yours,

ROBERT GORDON.

On the same night, January 24th, after Robert had
received a telegram from his broker in New York, stating that he had bought 200 bales of July cotton at
13.80, Robert figured that this would margin him to
12.80. He was sure from his study that July cotton
would never decline to 13.25.
He sat down and wrote:
MY DARLING MARIE:
Love is the greatest thing in the world. It is all powerful,
and your love for me is going to make me the greatest man
in the world. Today I have started on the road to fame and
fortune. When we were together last, I told you about my
discoveries of the cycles from the Bible and said I was sure
that I could figure out what the stock, cotton and grain markets
were going to do; that I was going to start speculating
as soon as I got the money.
You discouraged me. Recently I wrote to Mr. Kennelworth
about the matter, and he also discouraged me. He told me

71
what a hazardous and dangerous business it is. I hope that
you won't scold me, because I have already bought 200 bales
of July cotton at 13.80 and put up $1000 as margin. I am
sure that I am going to make money, and that it is going to
be the means of bringing us a great deal of happiness. If
I can make money, I can complete my invention and discoveries, go to New York where I will have all the advantages,
and we can soon be married and realize our dream.
Ever since we made up last Fall, and I was sure of you
and your love, I have been very ambitious and have not
wasted a minute, have studied day and night. Wanted to
prove to you that your faith in me was not to go unrewarded.
I believe that the great success of many men has been because
some good little woman placed a hand upon their shoulder
and said: "I trust you and love you." I have read a great
deal of the history of the men of great achievement, and every
time I found back of the success the love of some good woman.
It is the love of my mother and the love of you which has
inspired me to greater things. I am sure that success is going
to crown my efforts. Won't you give me your good wishes in
my start on the road to success?
With all my love, I am
As ever,
ROBERT.
Sherman, Texas.
January 26, 1927.
MY OWN DEAR ROBERT:
Your sweet letter just received. No, Robert, I am not going
to scold you, because I believe in you. I know you are doing
what you think is right, regardless of what anyone else thinks.
I love you all the more because you have confidence in yourself, and above all, confidence in the Holy Bible. I want you
to know, Robert, that should you lose your money and should
things go wrong, disappointment befall you, my love will
never waiver. My confidence in you is supreme, and I look
forward to the day when I may bring you before my father

72
and show to him that my confidence was not misplaced and
that you have sustained my faith and hope.
I love you and will always love you, Robert, if you never
make a dollar. It is not the money that counts with me, but
it does count with my father and mother, and I want you to
prove to them that without the help of anyone you can make
as much money as father has. I know you can, and I will
always love you and stand by you.
Devotedly,

Your MARIE.

On January 27th Mr. Kennelworth wrote to Robert:
MY DEAR ROBERT:
I have read your letter with a great deal of interest and
understanding. You are a deep thinker and a great reader.
Success is bound to come to a mind which interprets the
meaning of things. I shall be very happy to have you write
me about the future cycles as you interpret them, and shall
watch them with a great deal of interest.
Now that you have taken the step, Robert, and started in
speculating, I want to wish you success. I admire your courage in following your convictions and the faith you have in
yourself, and if it is possible for you to win, I believe and
hope you will.
Sincerely yours,
J. H. KENNELWORTH.
Robert's reply:
MY DEAR MR. KENNELWORTH:
My great desire to make money, I want you to understand,
is to do some good with it and benefit my country, when she
will need the benefit most. Please read Ezekiel very carefully, for I believe that Ezekiel is the greatest of all prophets.
He aptly describes an airplane which I can make that will be
a great aid in time of war. I believe that Ezekiel plainly
foretold the war yet to come which will be fought in the air,

73
and that the United States will be in great jeopardy, but will
finally win out. So you see, my object in speculating is not
a selfish motive altogether, but to help others and to help
my country.
The following verses show that Ezekiel was predicting something to happen in the future and was carrying out God's
instructions. Ezekiel 13: 2 and 3 -"Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel
that prophesy, and say thou unto them that prophesy
out of their own hearts, Hear ye the word of the Lord";
Ezekiel 14: 14, 16, 18 and 21 -"Though these three men, Noah, Daniel and Job, were
in it, they should deliver but their own souls by their
righteousness, saith the Lord God."
"Though these three men were in it, as I live, saith the
Lord God, they shall deliver neither sons nor daughters; they only shall be delivered, but the land shall
be desolate."
"Though these three men were in it, as I live, saith the
Lord God, they shall deliver neither sons nor daughters, but they only shall be delivered themselves."
"For thus saith the Lord God, How much more when I
send my four sore judgments upon Jerusalem, the
sword, and the famine, and the noisome beast, and the
pestilence, to cut off from it man and beast?"
Ezekiel 17: 3 -"And say, thus saith the Lord God, A great eagle with
great wings, long-winged, full of feathers, which had
divers colours, came unto Lebanon, and took the highest
branch of the cedar":
Ezekiel 21: 30 -"Shall I cause it to return unto his sheath? I will
judge thee in the place where thou wast created, in the
land of thy nativity."
From this, I believe that more famines, earthquakes, pestilence and wars are yet to come and that the noisome beast

74
referred to is the airplane. If we make calculations from
the date and place of birth, I think we can determine what
our future is to be, and in this way live according to cause
and effect, which is God's divine law.
When I stated that I believed Ezekiel the greatest prophet
of all, my authority is found in Ezekiel 28: 3 -"Behold, thou art wiser than Daniel. There is no secret
they can hide from thee."
Daniel was known to be a great prophet and astrologer. In
his prophecies, he foretold war, pestilence and famine to come
upon this earth, and by a proper study of the repetition of
cycles we can determine the time when important events will
take place in the future.
I am enclosing an article which I have written on Future
Cycles, and also one on the Cycles of Transportation.
Thanking you for your interest in my work, I am
Sincerely yours,
ROBERT GORDON.

75
CHAPTER VII
FUTURE CYCLES

January 28, 1927.

IN making my predictions I use geometry and mathematics, just as the astronomer does, based on immutable laws.

I am a believer in the Bible. It is the most wonderful book ever written, a book of science, philosophy and
religion. I claim that all scientific laws are laid down
in the Bible if a person knows where to find them.
Refer to St. Matthew 7: 7, which says:
"Ask and it shall be given you, seek and ye shall find,
knock and it shall be opened unto you."
I hold that the Bible contains the key to the process by
which man may know all there is to know of the future,
if he will only seek diligently for the rules laid down
in the Holy Book.
My calculations are based on the cycle theory and on
mathematical sequences. History repeats itself. That
is what I have always contended, -- that in order to
know and predict the future of anything you only have
to look up what has happened in the past and get a correct base or starting point. My authority for stating
that the future is but a repetition of the past is found
in the Bible.

76
Read Eccl. 1: 9:
"The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be;
and that which is done, is that which shall be done:
and there is no new thing under the sun."
Again
"That which has been is now and that which is to be
hath already been."
This makes it plain that everything works according to
past cycles, and that history repeats itself in the lives
of men, nations and the stock market.
We are told that the great continent of Atlantis, for
centuries submerged under the Atlantic Ocean, possessed a civilization greater than ours of today. The
people of Atlantis had their telephones, wireless, radios
and airplanes. There is considerable truth in that
statement. According to mathematical sequence, the
wonderful inventions that brought comfort and convenience to the Atlantians are due to appear again, and
we are now only on the threshold of another great age.
Remember, everything in this universe is elliptical
or circular in motion; that applies both to the abstract
and the concrete, the mental, physical and spiritual.
Every thought you think makes a circle, and it comes
back to you. It may take years but you will get the
effects, good or evil, according as the thought was either
good or evil. That is a truth we should learn, and the
world will be the better for it.
In making my calculations on the stock market, or
any future event, I get the past history and find out
what cycle we are in and then predict the curve for the

77
future, which is a repetition of past market movements.
The great law of vibration is based on like producing
like. Like causes produce like effects. Wireless telegraphy, the phonograph and the radio are based on this
law. The limit of future predictions based on exact
mathematical law is only restricted by lack of knowledge
of correct data on past history to work from. It is
just as easy to figure 100 years or 1000 years in the
future as one or two years ahead, if you have the correct
starting point and know the cycle which is going to be
repeated.
A few years ago even scientific men, not alone the
public, would have laughed at such a thing and refused
to believe it. But mathematical science, which is the
only real science that the entire civilized world has
agreed upon, furnishes unmistakable proof of history
repeating itself and shows that the cycle theory, or harmonic analysis, is the only thing that we can rely upon
to ascertain the future.
Sometime ago an article appeared in the New York
American commenting on the writings of Sir Arthur
Evans, foremost English archeologist, who published
"The Palace of Minos," a book concerning the ancient
City of Minotaur. He described the excavation on the
Isle of Crete in the Mediterranean Sea, in which they
found modern apartment houses, bath tubs and corsets,
the same as used today. The plumbing that they found
was so excellent that it is still working after thousands
of years. It is estimated that the ancient city was destroyed over 5000 years ago, or about 3500 B.C. The
fact that a long time elapsed before apartment houses

78
became popular again is another proof of history repeating itself and shows
"There is no new thing under sun,"
but that we simply resurrect the old ones.
"How do I forecast future cycles?" you may ask.
In order to forecast future cycles, the most important
thing is to begin right, for if we have the right beginning, we will get the right ending. If we know the
cause of the effect, then there can be no doubt about
predicting the future event or effect.
I have always looked for causes and when once I
determine a cause I can always be sure of the effect
or future event which I predict. IT IS NOT MY
AIM TO EXPLAIN THE CAUSE OF CYCLES.
The general public is not yet ready for it and probably
would not understand or believe it if I explained it.
In every law of nature there is a major and a minor;
a positive, a negative, and a neutral. Therefore, in
cycles there must be a lesser, a greater and intermediate
cycle, or cycles within cycles. Like Ezekiel says:
"Wheel within a wheel.”
Time is the great factor that proves all things. The
measurement of time first originated and is based on
the earth's motion upon its axis. One of the smallest
cycles, or time factors, which repeats regularly in things
that are very active and have a high vibration, is the
four-minute cycle. The reason for this is that the earth
moves one degree every four minutes. The next cycle
is 24 hours, the complete time required for the earth
to make one revolution upon its axis. That is how man

79
measured his cycle of a day. The next important cycle
is one year, the time required for the earth to move
around the sun. This brings about the four seasons
of the year. These are the minor cycles.
The major cycles run in 100 and 5000 years with
variations based on minor cycles. In order to be sure
of world events and important changes, it is necessary
to go back at least 1000 years and prove up the cycles.
We find ample proof of the 1000-year cycle in the Bible:
"A little one shall become a thousand and a small one
a strong nation; I the Lord, will hasten it in his time."
Also
"One day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and
a thousand years as one day."
Another evidence of the 1000-year cycle:
"And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which
is the Devil, and Satan, and bound him a thousand
years."
If we go back 1000 years, we can find ample proof
of how history has been repeating itself in the past few
years. From about A.D. 916 to 923 Europe went thru
about the same conditions that prevailed 1000 years
later or around 1914 to 1920. During the first period
referred to, Europe experienced wars, panics and crop
failures. History shows that in 916 agriculture in
the British Isles was at its lowest ebb and that there
was great scarcity of wheat and corn. Very few people
were engaged in tilling the soil on account of wars. The

80
same conditions prevailed 1000 years later in 1916 and
1917, when this country was called on to furnish food
to starving Europe and send men and money to save
their armies from defeat. In 917, Constantinople was
besieged by the Bulgarians and war continued to 919.
We know that war prevailed in Turkey and all over
Europe between 1914 and 1919. In 923 there was
Civil War in France and 1000 years later, or in 1923,
France again had her troubles and is still having them.
Another proof of the 1000- and 2000-year cycle is
evidenced by a lecture given by Prof. Hans Delbruck
of the University of Berlin at the University College of
London, just before the outbreak of the World War
in 1914. He said:
"One of his first observations in comparing the phe0nomena of the history of wars in the different ages
was the likeness between the battles in which the Swiss
conquered Duke Charles the Bold, and the battles in
which the Greeks overcame the Persians. They had in
an interval of 2000 years exactly the same arms and the
same political institutions fighting against each other."
What proof of the 100-year cycle do we get from 100
years ago of what has happened in the past few years?
In the United States, between 1814 and 1822, we had
crop failures, war and yellow fever, especially from
1819 to 1822. In 1821 Persia was visited with Asiatic
cholera. In 1823 cholera broke out in several ports
along the Mediterranean. During the same period,
corresponding to 100 years ago, the United States had
the terrible epidemic of influenza and in Europe, Russia
was visited with famine, cholera and all kinds of dis-

81
eases, killing millions. In 1822 there was a famine
in Ireland and 100 years later they were winding up
their troubles and trying to make settlement and peace
with England. In 1922 China and Russia were both
suffering from famines, another proof of the 100-year
cycle. Some more important evidence of this cycle is
found by going back 100 years in history, in which we
find that in 1819 the first steamship crossed the Atlantic Ocean. In 1919, 100 years later, the British dirigible R-34 made a successful flight from Scotland to
Mineola, Long Island.
Where do we find proof in the Bible that the great
World War was coming?
The proof that it is possible to make predictions of
wars, famines, pestilences and general world events
thousands of years in advance, is plainly substantiated
by the Bible. The great World War was prophesied
in the Book of Revelation.
What proof do we find in the Bible of what events
or conditions will follow wars? What does the Bible
say of the great World War which St. John the Divine
foretold in the Book of Revelation?
"For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom
against kingdom; and there shall be famines, and pestilences, and earthquakes in divers places."
Again the Bible says:
"Immediately after the tribulation of these days shall the
sun be darkened, and the moon shall not give light, and
the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the
heavens shall be shaken."

82
Again, it says:
"The Lord hath called for a famine; and it shall also
come upon the land seven years."
And seven years from the close of the World War,
Europe had the terrible crop failures, strikes, business
depression and calamities, which occurred in 1923 to
1926.
Some evidence of long-range predictions which have
been fulfilled, that has attracted attention, appeared in
the New York American, January 29, 1922. The
article refers to an amazing prophecy of the twelfth century made by Malachy, a priest, in A.D. 1139, in which
he foretold accurately the personality of the Papal succession by means of mottoes and numbers. He foretold
the long struggles which Ireland would have to go thru
and the eventual peace, which has been recently signed.
His prophecy on the future Pope is No. 266. Fides
Intrepida, which means -- "Unwavering Faith, unshaken belief in the face of danger; unfaltering devotion." To those who understand numbers, "266" reveals some remarkable events that are to follow the election of the new Pope. It shows that wars are not yet
over and that Europe will have troublesome conditions,
and in fact, the entire world must yet pass thru a very
evil period between 1926 and 1932. It also confirms
both the major and minor cycles which indicate that
the years 1928 and 1930 to 1932 are to be years of
famine, depressing business conditions and panic, not
only in Europe, but in the United States. The maximum evil of the great 1000-year cycle, which will not

83
be completed until 1932 to 1934, will bring serious
troubles to the United States. Another bad period for
the United States will be 1940 to 1944.
The question arises: -- If we can know the future, is
it of value to us? It has been well said: "Forewarned
is forearmed," but I prefer to look to the Bible for
authority and proof. When Pharaoh had his wonderful
dream, he went to Joseph to have it interpreted. Joseph
said:
"And the seven thin and ill favored kine that came up
after them are seven years; and the seven empty years,
blasted with the east wind, shall be seven years of
famine."
Listen to the advice Joseph gave him:
"Let them gather all the food of those good years that
come, and lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh,
and let them keep food in the cities. The people
throughout the land should take warning and prepare
for the unfavorable years to follow."
The Bible is the BOOK of all books, and if we only
study it and understand it, we can gain a proper knowledge of all things. I believe it the duty of any man who
understands science and mathematics and the cycle
theory, and knows what is coming, to warn the people
in order that they may prepare for trouble ahead.
Many will scoff and laugh and refuse to believe until
it is too late. The Bible is full of references where
God has given us signs by which we may know what is
coming, if we will only believe them. He says:
“O, ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky;
but can ye not discern the signs of the times?”

84
Again the Bible says:
"And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament,
of the heaven to divide the day from the night, and
let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days,
and years."
How few people are willing to study the Bible in order
to understand the signs and discern the future and profit
by it.

85
CHAPTER VIII
CYCLES OF TRANSPORTATION

THE coming mode of transportation will be by airplane and I feel sure they will be used in the great war to come. The Bible tells us that Enoch, who
was the seventh from Adam -- a number generally referred to as divine -- was translated to heaven for his
faith at the age of 365 years. This event took place
about 3017 B.c. I believe that at that time they had
all modern inventions and that Enoch went up in an
airplane. The writer of the book, probably not having
seen an airplane before and seeing Enoch go into the
sky, thought that he had gone to heaven. We are now
in the 5000-year cycle, from the time that Enoch was
transferred to heaven, and this indicates the progress
of the airplane at this time. Elijah was also translated
to heaven in a cloud of fire, in 896 B.C. I believe this,
too, was an airplane. Since the chariot was seen blazing
with some kind of fire or gas, the recorder thought it
was just something to take Elijah to heaven.
Man first traveled by land, then conquered the water
and last, the greatest feat of all, is conquering the air,
which was plainly foretold in the Bible.
In 1602 there was a railway built in New Castle,
England, operated by horsepower. In 1776, the first

86
iron rails were laid, the first important step leading to
railways. In July, 1801, there was a completed tram
road from Croyden to Wandsworth, England. In
1802, the first high-pressure locomotive was invented.
In 1813, William Hedley built a locomotive. In 1824,
the first locomotive, by George Stephenson, traveled six
miles per hour. In 1829, the Rocket made a speed of
fifteen miles per hour. In 1834, the Firefly Locomotive
made a speed of twenty miles an hour, and in 1839,
the North Star made a speed of thirty-seven miles per
hour.
Man used the air as power for sailing vessels long
years before he ever dreamed that it could be used to
travel thru by airplane. The first idea of steam navigation was patented by Jonathan in 1713, and later in
1783, a steamboat by Fitch. In 1793, the first real
steamboat by Fulton. On August 9, 1803, Fulton's
steamboat, "The Claremont," made its first trip up the
Hudson. In 1807, Fulton started a steamboat line on
the Hudson. On July 15, 1819, the first steamship
made a trip from New York to Liverpool in twenty-six
days. In October, 1829, a locomotive by steam carriages started in Liverpool. In June, 1838, the "Great
Western" made a trip from Bristol, arrived in New
York, making the voyage in eighteen days. The next
record for ocean travel was made in 1851 when the
"Pacific" crossed the Atlantic in 9 days, 19 hours and
25 minutes. In 1917, a German submarine boat made
a successful trip from Germany to Baltimore.
The advent of automobiles, or gas engines, began in
1877, when the first gas engine was invented by Otto.

87
In 1879, a gasoline motor was invented by Selden. In
1892, the first automobile was operated by C. A. Duryea. Note that this was repeating the 500-year cycle,
and 100 years before the first attempt was made to start
an iron railway, and in 1783, the first time a balloon
went up which carried a passenger.
In our modern times the first attempt by man to conquer the air by means of plane or balloon was in June,
1783, when Joseph and Stephen Montgolfier built the
first balloon, but it carried no passengers. In November, 1783, for the first time man went up in a balloon
that sailed over Paris. In 1859, John Wise sailed in
a balloon from St. Louis to Henderson, N. Y., in twenty
hours; the greatest distance accomplished up to that
time. In 1900, Count Zeppelin flew the first dirigible.
In November, 1903, Wilbur and Orville Wright made
their first flight in an airplane which rose under its
own power. Note that his was 100 years after Fulton's
first steamboat went up the Hudson, again repeating the
100-year cycle. In July, 1908, Glenn H. Curtiss flew
his first airplane. In July, 1909, Charles K. Hamilton
flew from New York to Philadelphia -- seventy-four
miles. Note 100 years before this, in 1807, Fulton
started the first steamship line up the Hudson.
From 1914 to 1918, airplanes were used in the great
World War; 100 years before steamers began crossing
the Atlantic Ocean for the first time. In June, 1919, first
non-stop flight from St. John's, Newfoundland, to Ireland. In July, 1919, the R-34 made a successful flight
from Scotland to Mineola, Long Island. The R-34
made the trip in 64 hours and 13 minutes. One hundred

88
years previous to this the first fast steamship crossed
the Atlantic.
In May, 1923, Lieut. Macready and Kelly made a
non-stop flight from New York to San Diego, California. In July, 1923, sunrise to sunset flight from
New York to San Francisco. The flight was made by
Russell L. Maughan. March 17th to September 28,
1924, L. H. Smith and Lee Wade flew around the world
the first time. May, 1926, Richard E. Byrd circled the
North Pole with the dirigible. May 21, 1927, Charles
A. Lindbergh made the first successful flight across the
Atlantic from New York to Paris.
Note how the airplane followed 100 years later after
the fast steamer across the Atlantic. As railroad and
ocean transportation made rapid progress from 1807 to
1838, so is airplane transportation making rapid progress and I predict that in 1938, airplanes will be traveling at the rate of 1000 miles an hour to all parts of the
earth, carrying passengers and freight. My interpretation of the cycles to repeat in future indicates that from
1928 to 1932, one of the greatest battles of all history
will be fought in the air. In the next few years airplanes will be making successful trips around the world
and carrying passengers.
Man has succeeded in traveling on the earth by steam,
gas and electricity. The automobile solved the problem
of motor transportation without rail. The water was
first conquered in a crude canoe, next with a sailing
vessel, then the fast steamers and later the submarine
by which man can travel secretly under the water. The
next and last great conquest was the air, and as nations

89
have fought battles on the land, on the water and used
the submarine for successful warfare under the water,
the next and last great step in transportation will be in
the air. It is but natural to expect that the greatest
battle of all will take place in the air when all modern
inventions will be used to destroy human life. As stated
in the Bible, unless the time be shortened, no human
being will be left on this earth, but the Good Book has
promised that the time will be shortened. Nations
will try this new mode to conquer each other before the
United Kingdom, spoken of in the Bible, can be
realized.

90
CHAPTER IX

SUPPLEMENTING his former letter, Robert Gordon wrote:

DEAR MR. KENNELWORTH:
I am anxious to make some money in my cotton deals and
get into wheat for the big advance that I figure is coming this
Spring and Summer. Then I want to be in position to buy
some Right Aeroplane and Sell Major Motors and other stocks
short, because I believe that in the next few years I can make
a fortune buying Right Aeroplane stock and selling short
Major Motors.
Just as the railroad locomotive attained great speed from
1834 to 1839, and the big steamers cut down the time between
New York and Europe, so will airplanes 100 years later cut
the time around the world and to all points of the world. Just
as the automobile has supplanted the railway passenger trains
in carrying passengers across the country, so will the airplane
take the place of railroads and automobiles in transportation
through the air, because it will be much faster and safer. I
believe that the airplane described by Ezekiel is going to be
the model of a great plane in the future and I would like to
make money enough to be the man to build the first plane
according to the plans laid down in the Bible.
Mr. Kennelworth, I want to help you and show my appreciation for all your kindness to me. I would like to help you
make back the money that you lost in the big slump in stocks
in the Fall of 1919, and believe that if you will buy some
July or October cotton right now, and hold it, you will make
a lot of money. To show your faith in me, buy at least 100
bales. Then along about the 5th of April, we will have a

91
lot of big profits made and can buy some wheat and corn
as I figure that wheat and corn are going to start up the early
part of April and advance twenty-five to thirty cents per
bushel. Haven't you faith enough in me and faith enough in
the Bible to risk a few hundred dollars and make back all
the money you have lost? Of course you don't need it, Mr.
Kennelworth, but it would make me very happy to see you
make some money, anyway.
Sincerely,
ROBERT.
After reading over Robert's letters and explanation
of the cycles, Mr. Kennelworth answered:
February 1, 1927.
MY DEAR ROBERT:
Your amazing letter and forecast of the future cycles, received. I am surprised to find one so young possessed of so
much knowledge. It shows that you are a deep student and
have been searching for the hidden mysteries. You will receive your reward.
I have faith in the Bible and in you, Robert. In 1919, I
followed tips and lost a lot of money. Now I must have
enough faith in you to risk a little money on your predictions,
based on the Bible, so I telegraphed my brokers in New York
today and bought 500 bales of July cotton at 13.70. If it
goes up, I am going to hold it and the money I make on it, I
am going to give to you and Marie when you are married as
a wedding present, or if you need the money to promote your
invention, I will let you have it to use for that purpose.
Please keep me posted on your studies and on your new
discoveries. Always feel free to come and talk your matters
over with me. I am always interested in anything that you
have to write or talk to me about. Have faith in you and
believe you are right about the great war to come.
It is plain that the nations in Europe are rapidly getting
ready for war, and, of course, it will be with airplanes. While

92
I hate to think the United States will again be called into
war, at the same time I realize that all of the foreign countries
are jealous of us, because we have such enormous gold supply
and have grown so prosperous. The United States is now
the banker of the world, and while it was no fault of ours that
the great World War occurred, which resulted to our benefit
by transfer of gold from other nations to us, at the same time
they are jealous and have a real hatred for America.
So you are probably right in preparing to build a great
airplane to be used in defending your country. Such noble
intentions, my boy, fill my heart with pride. I am going to
drive out to the farm to see your mother next Sunday if I
can get time. Want to have a talk with her and tell her of
your brilliant achievement. It makes every mother's heart
glad to know that her boy is trying to accomplish something.
I feel sure that you are going to accomplish your aims, Robert,
and I am with you always.
Sincerely yours,
J. H. KENNELWORTH.
After hearing from Mr. Kennelworth, Robert was
very happy, and of course, had to share his happiness
with Marie.
February 5, 1927.
SWEET MARIE:
I am very happy on this Saturday night, and nothing could
make me happier than to be with you. I feel that I have won
a great victory. I have put my theories up to Mr. Kennelworth, explained all that I could about my discoveries of the
cycles in the Bible, and urged him to buy some cotton and
make back the money that he lost in 1919. He said that he
had faith in me and the Bible so he bought 500 bales of July
cotton at 13.70 as I suggested.
While the market hasn't gone up much since I bought mine,
at the same time it is holding steady and I am sure that it is
going up. I believe Mr. Kennelworth is going to make a lot

93
of money on his cotton and I want to see him make it because
he is an honest, whole-hearted man and has done everything
he could to help me. The $500 bonus he gave me in January
enabled me to have margin enough to buy the cotton, and if I
make a great success I will feel that I owe him a great debt
of gratitude, because he has really helped me get a start.
Don't think I fail to appreciate all you are doing, my little
sweetheart, and the faith that you have in me. I am looking
forward to the day when I will make Wall Street hum with
you standing by my side. Nothing would be left for me to
work for if it wasn't the hope of having you, and the happiness
that you can bring. Money will not mean anything except to
accomplish my purpose, help my country and buy the things
that will make you happy.
Love is indeed the greatest thing in the world and you are
the greatest woman in the world. With your love, there is
nothing that I cannot do. You are my last thought when I
go to sleep at night and the first when I wake in the morning.
Everything I do, I always think is for you. Your sweet little
letters are always so encouraging and your supreme faith in
me urges me on to greater things.
With all the love that my heart can send, I am as ever
Your loving

MY OWN DEAR ROBERT:

ROBERT.
Monday, February 7, 1927.

Your letter received this A.M. It is the happiest Monday
morning that I have ever had. Am glad to know that Mr.
Kennelworth is backing up your judgment. If I had some
money I certainly would send it to you to buy some cotton
for me. Maybe I will have some in a few months, because I
am saving something every week from my allowance which
Papa sends me.
Every night when I kneel to pray, I ask God to give you
strength and confidence, Robert, and I know that he can and
will help you. It makes me very happy to know in all of your

94
plans for the future, you think of me, and I am going to try
to prove worthy of that great love. You are so noble, pure
and unselfish; always thinking of others and thinking of what
you can do to help protect your country in time of war.
I do hope and pray as your mother does, that the days of
wars may pass away; that man may cease to fight and may
know and understand each other, setting their differences on
the basis of love. I will welcome that day, and hope that I
may stand by your side, when there will be no more wars and
our loved ones will not be taken away to war.
Write me often, Robert, and know that you have all the
love that the heart of one little woman can send.
Your own
The month of February slowly passed away. Cotton
was very slow and inactive, but on February 23rd, it
started up and went up fast. On March 2nd, July cotton had advanced to 14.80, and Robert had a profit of
$1,000.00 and Mr. Kennelworth had a profit of
$2,500.00. Robert was very much elated over his progress and the profit for Mr. Kennelworth. He wrote
Marie how the market was working out according to his
prediction; how the money was piling up; and that he
would soon have money to start on his invention and new
discovery. Marie was very happy over Robert's success
and wrote encouraging letters. Mr. Kennelworth was
also very happy and congratulated Robert on being able
to buy cotton very close to the low level in January.
March was the month to bring disappointment to
Robert. Cotton started to decline and by the middle
of the month had declined to around 13.75 wiping out
all Robert's and Mr. Kennelworth's profits, but still
leaving their capital intact. Robert was not discour-

MARIE.

95
aged. He told Mr. Kennelworth that the flood was sure
to come in the Mississippi Valley during April and
May, the Spring would be late, and the price would be
sure to advance. He had no thought of selling out his
cotton and urged Mr. Kennelworth to hold his, which
he did.
Marie had become very much interested in the market
and was reading the paper every day and watching the
prices. She saw the price decline to around 13.75 and
knew that Robert's profits would now be wiped out.
She felt very sorry for him and wrote him:
March 15th, 1927.
MY DEAR ROBERT:
I have not heard from you in several days. I see that the
market has declined to where you now have no profit left on
your deal. Do not get discouraged; I have great faith in
you and believe that you are yet going to come out all right
and make a lot of money. Why don't you hold your cotton,
and tell Mr. Kennelworth to hold his, because my intuition
tells me that you are certainly right?
I have been saving money every week from my allowance.
A few weeks ago I wrote Papa and told him that I had to
have some extra money and asked him if he could let me
have $300.00. He sent the money at once, so I now have
$400.00 and I am sending it to you. I want you to buy me
100 bales of July cotton. I was talking with a broker from
Dallas a few days ago, and he says that he believes cotton
will go up even tho it may be slow for a while. Take the
money, and if you can get the broker to buy a hundred for
me, do so. This is my faith in you, and in the Bible. So don't
be afraid to buy for me, Robert. I am just as game as you are.
With all love and wishing you luck,
As ever, your own
MARIE.

96
This letter was a great consolation and encouragement
to Robert. He had begun to feel a little blue because
cotton had declined. Not that he thought it wouldn't
go up again, but he was sorry that he had failed to get
the profits.
He took Marie's money and on March 17th bought
100 bales of July cotton at 13.90. The cotton market
was slow during the balance of March, but it did not
decline, and Robert was greatly encouraged. The market was slow again during April, but prices were holding
steady and Robert felt encouraged that they did not
decline. On April 20th a flood started in the Mississippi Valley. The Spring was late and planting delayed. Cotton started to advance and went up fast, July
reaching 15.40 by April 25th. Robert's profits were
now piling up fast, and Marie had a profit of over
$700.00 on her 100 bales. Mr. Kennelworth had held
his cotton and profits were accumulating fast for him.
He congratulated Robert on his wonderful prediction
that the flood came as he forecast. Marie was watching
the papers so she wired Robert as follows:
YOU ARE A WONDER THE MARKET IS MAKING GOOD AND WE
ARE GOING TO WIN I AM WITH YOU ALWAYS LOVE

Robert now began to see possibilities of his dream
being realized, and thought in a few months he could
resign his position and go to New York and continue to
speculate in order to make money enough to build his
airplane and work out ideas for his other discoveries.
So he wrote Marie this letter:

MARIE.

97
April 30th, 1927.
MY DARLING MARIE,
The Lord has been good to us. Fortune is smiling on us.
Cotton is on its way up. In a few weeks will be up around
17c a pound, and we will have a lot of money made. I bought
another 100 bales today and Mr. Kennelworth bought 500
bales more. It won't be long until I have money enough to
go to New York. When I go, I want you to go with me,
because I cannot go there and succeed alone without you. I
need your love and encouragement, and want you to marry
me and start to New York together. Of course I don't like
to have you leave school before you graduate, but I feel it is
best for you to go with me.
Write and let me know what you think about it.
With all my love,
Your ROBERT.
Marie's reply:
Sunday, May 1st, 1927.
MY DEAR ROBERT,
I have just received your letter, and I am happy to know
that the cotton is moving your way. I know that you love
and trust me and I want you to know that I love and trust
you, so please try to understand me. While I have the greatest faith in you and know that you will succeed, I feel that
marrying you just now might handicap you and prevent your
success. When once I am yours, Robert, you will have realized
your fondest hope, and possibly your ambition may wane.
You will fight harder to win if you still cling to the hope of
winning me. They say that hope and anticipation are greater
than realization, Robert. Never cease to hope for I am with
you. Even when I am not with you, trust me as I trust you,
for I love only you.
I am going to tell you a dream that I had a few nights ago.
I saw you a great success. Fortune was smiling on you. The
world was at your feet, but I seemed to see a great tragedy
follow this. It seemed I left you in a mysterious way and

98
then came back to you just as mysteriously. Now, don't think
that I do not want to go with you, Robert, and don't think
that I believe in dreams, but somehow it has made a great
impression on me.
Of course you know that father would never consent to me
leaving school to marry you, and if we married, we would have
to run away. Would it not be best for you to go to
New York, as you have planned, work on your invention, and
let my love and faith guide you to success? You could live
for my love, which you have always said was the greatest
thing in the world. You have all my love and will always
have it.
I could continue in school and later, if you became despondent and could not get along without me, remember that I
would have faith and love enough to give up father, mother,
and everything else and come to you. I want to do what I
feel is best for your future, Robert, and I hope that you will
believe me and see it that way. I want you to come over to
see me next Sunday, so we can talk over all your future plans.
With all of my love for you always,
Your MARIE.
When Robert received Marie's letter, he was disappointed, but felt that when he saw her and talked matters over, he could get her to change her mind, give up
school, if necessary, marry him and go to New York
with him. He had heard and read much of the pitfalls
of the great City of New York and felt that he did not
care to venture there alone without Marie with him as
his wife. While his old school-mate and chum, Walter
Kennelworth, was in New York and could work with him
and be a great help and comfort, he felt that Marie,
his one great inspiration, was absolutely necessary to
his success and that he must persuade her to go with
him to New York.

99
On Sunday, May 1st, Robert went to visit his mother
in the country. He found that Mr. Kennelworth had
been there and told her of Robert's success and his faith
in him. Robert's mother was very happy when he told
her that cotton was advancing and he was making money
rapidly and Mr. Kennelworth was making money; that
Marie had such great faith in him that she had put up
her only $400.00 and bought 100 bales of cotton and
now had a profit of about $1,000.00.
Robert told his mother of his plans. That he expected within a few months to go to New York, establish himself there, and speculate in order to make money
so that he could build his great airplane according to
Ezekiel's plan and prepare to help his country in time
of war. Mrs. Gordon was very happy to learn of her
boy's success. She was sad when he began to talk about
war. Robert assured her that the Bible plainly foretold
the great war which was to be fought in the air and
that it was his duty to help protect his country. While
his mother admired his patriotism, she again referred
to the dream that she had had years before, about a great
war which would come and in which she thought that
Robert lost his life in San Francisco.
She talked to Robert of his future and told him she
hoped he would be a preacher. Robert confided to her
that he could never be an orthodox minister, for he
could not preach and teach the things which the orthodox ministers were teaching. He did not believe in a
personal devil or believe in Hell, but believed in a God
of Love and Justice. He did not believe that God would
inflict upon any of his children eternal punishment but

100
thought that whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also
reap and that we receive our reward here upon earth.
He told her that the Bible plainly said that the kingdom of heaven is within us and he believed it. If we
kept our conscience clear and did unto others as we
would like to have them do unto us, he believed we
would find our heaven and our reward here upon earth.
Said that times and conditions were changing rapidly;
that the new inventions and discoveries caused men to
think differently than in the old days; that the old religious ideas would pass away and give place to more
liberal, advanced ideas. He hoped to live to see the day
when men would not only be too proud to fight, but
would be too full of love for their fellowman to settle
disputes with the sword. This was God's plan and it
would come to pass this way, and he believed that he
could be a great power for peace and hoped to live to
see a world of peace with all nations united under one
kingdom and one God, the God of Love and Justice.
Mrs. Gordon felt that her faith in Robert had been
justified and that she understood him better than his
father and brother. He told his mother of his hopes
for an early marriage with Marie and that when he
went to New York, he wanted to take Marie with him
as his wife. His mother was not in favor of an elopement. She wanted him to make good, act in an honorable way and ask the consent of Mr. Stanton to his
marriage with Marie, but she felt at this time Mr. Stanton would not give his consent because he wanted Marie
to complete her education and it was right and proper
she should. His mother asked him if he didn't think

101
it would be best to continue his position with Mr. Kennelworth for a few years longer, after he saw that he
was making a success before going to New York where
he might fail in a strange city. Robert was filled with
a great determination to go. He wished to make a success and knew he would, because he read the Bible and
had learned how.
The week ending May 7th was the greatest week in
Robert Gordon's life up to that time. Cotton advanced
rapidly about $4.00 per bale, and by May 7th Robert's
profits were about $2,500.00. Marie had a profit of
over $1,000.00 on her 100 bales which Robert bought
for her, and Mr. Kennelworth now had a profit of about
$7,000.00.
On Saturday morning, May 7th, Mr. Kennelworth
called Robert into his private office and asked him if
he knew what the cotton market was doing that morning. Robert said he hadn't heard what the price was.
Mr. Kennelworth told him that July was now selling
around 16 cents per pound, and that while he had some
nice profits, the money was not the thing that counted
with him, but the fact that Robert was right on the
market made him happy that he had faith in him
and encouraged him.
Robert then confided to Mr. Kennelworth that he
was very anxious to go to New York just as soon as
possible. He had been reading about the contemplated
flights of the airplanes from New York across the Atlantic, and he wanted to be in New York by his birthday in June, 1927, because he figured by that time the
airplanes would have crossed the Atlantic and there

102
would be great excitement in New York. He wished to
be there and get all the information he could about airplanes, because he wanted to start building his own
just as soon as he had money enough and felt that he
could do so. He asked Mr. Kennelworth what he
thought about him resigning in a short time to go to
New York. Mr. Kennelworth told him that he would
regret very much to lose his services, but that he had
great faith in Robert's study of the Bible and what he
thought he could do, and that if he wanted to do so,
he would let him go and not only that, but would aid
him financially. Robert confided his hope and desire
to take Marie with him. Mr. Kennelworth didn't exactly agree with this but told him that this was a problem he would have to solve for himself; that if Marie
had faith enough in him to take the step, he was sure
it would work out all right; and that he could always
have his old position back any time that he wanted to
return, and could have any help that he could render
him in New York.
After his conference with Mr. Kennelworth, Robert
wired Marie as follows:
EXPECT TO BE WITH YOU SUNDAY WILL COME OVER ON AFTERNOON TRAIN TODAY.

Robert arrived in Sherman, Texas, Saturday evening,
and Marie met him at the train. She was overjoyed at
Robert's success. They spent Saturday evening and
Sunday together. It seemed to them the happiest days
of their lives. Robert talked over his plans and Marie
was enthusiastic about his future. He told her that if

103
the market worked as he expected, he intended to trade
in wheat and corn in the near future; that he hoped to
go to New York by the early part of June, as he was
very enthusiastic about the air flights from New York
across the Atlantic to Paris, and get started on his studies and invention. Marie was willing to give him all
the money she had made to help him out but he told her
that the one thing he wanted was her and her love, and
that he wanted her to go with him to New York.
She knew her father would never consent to their
marriage and the only way would be to elope. While
she thought it best to finish her studies in school and
join him in New York later, said if he insisted, she
would go with him. Robert left for Texarkana on Sunday afternoon, May 8th, with Marie's promise that if
he decided to go to New York within a few weeks, they
would make arrangements to elope and be married in
St. Louis on their arrival there. Robert had his Bible
with him and on his way back home Sunday night, spent
several hours reading it and going over the predictions
by Ezekiel and the plans outlined by Ezekiel for an
airplane, which Robert hoped and expected to build in
the near future.
During the next ten days, cotton was slow and reacted
40 to 50 points. But this in no wise discouraged Robert, as he felt sure that a big advance was coming the
latter part of May and during the early June.
On May 19th, July cotton was again up around the
16 cent level. Robert felt that now was the time to
start buying wheat and corn. He wired his broker in
New York to buy 10,000 July wheat and 10,000 July

104
corn, and to raise the stop loss order on his cotton and
also place a stop loss order on the wheat and corn, to
protect the broker and himself. The broker wired that
he had bought 10,000 July wheat at 1.38 1/2 and 10,000
July corn at 92 cents. On May 20th Robert bought
10,000 July corn at 92 1/2 cents for Marie's account.
He told Mr. Kennelworth that he figured wheat and
corn were now going to have a big advance, and advised
him to buy some, which he did.

105
CHAPTER X

MAY 21st was a red-letter day in the life of Robert
Gordon. Wheat, corn and cotton all advanced
to the highest levels of the season. Robert had read
reports in the paper that Charles A. Lindbergh had
started on his lone flight from New York to Paris. He
went down to the telegraph office in the afternoon to
inquire if there was any news about the success of Lindbergh's flight. The operator said that nothing had come
over the wire yet, but there had been a report that
Lindbergh had passed over Ireland early that morning.
Robert waited in the telegraph office until about 5 P.M.
when a flash came over the wire that Lindbergh had
landed in Paris. This fired Robert's enthusiasm, and
he was very much excited. Right then and there decided that he was going to New York in the very near
future and start to build an airplane according to his
own plans. He went immediately to the home of Mr.
Kennelworth and told him about his plans and desire
to go to New York just as soon as possible.
Mr. Kennelworth was also very enthusiastic about
Lindbergh's flight across the Atlantic, and told Robert
that he contemplated going to New York to be there for
the reception when Lindbergh returned, and that he
wanted to visit Walter and see how he was getting along
anyway. So Robert tendered his resignation to Mr.

106
Kennelworth to take place on May 31, 1927. Mr. Kennelworth accepted the resignation with the understanding and promise from Robert that if anything went
wrong or he should lose his money or meet with disappointments in New York, he would immediately return
and assume his old position. Robert thanked him for
his kindness and told him that be would feel free to call
on him but that he felt he would never have to return
to take up the position again. In view of his discoveries
of the cycles in the Bible, he could make money in the
market, but his object was not alone to make money
for selfish purposes, but to use it to benefit others and
for the protection of his country at the time of the coming great war which would be fought in the air.
On Sunday, May 22nd, Robert wrote to Marie:
MY DEAREST MARIE,
The past week has been a great one for us, and yesterday,
the 21st, was the greatest day in history. Lindbergh, the lone
aviator, crossed the Atlantic and landed safely in Paris.
Wheat, corn and cotton went up and we made more money.
Profits are piling up fast, and I will soon have plenty of
money to build my airplane.
I had a long talk with Mr. Kennelworth yesterday afternoon after we received the news of Lindbergh's flight, and
resigned my position, to take place on May 31st. Expect to
go to New York some time in the early part of June, and of
course I want to take you with me as my wife. With the
profits we now have made in the market, there will be no
trouble about us getting along all right in New York and I
am sure that I am going to make a lot more money.
Cotton is going away up in the early part of June and
wheat is going very high in the latter part of May and early
June. I will sell out and take some of my profits so we can

107
get started in good shape. Will see you next Sunday and talk
the matter over and plan the best way.
Your love and faith has sustained me thus far and helped
to make me the success that I am, and with that love, there
is no height which I cannot reach.
I love you more than ever. You are all and everything
to me.
Lovingly,
ROBERT.
During the week ending May 28th, Robert watched
the markets very closely because he figured that wheat
and corn would be top around May 28th to June 1st.
He wanted to sell out and get the profits so that he could
go to New York. Cotton advanced to the highest level
that week and on Saturday, July was up to 16.40.
Robert had a profit of over $3,000.00 in his cotton. He
sold out his July wheat on May 28th at $1.50 and sold
the corn at $1.03 1/2, making about $2,300.00 profit.
This, together with his stock profits, gave him about
$6,000.00. He sold out Marie's corn at $1.03 1/2, making a profit of about $1,100.00 there. She also had a
profit of about $1,200.00 on the cotton which she was
still holding because he believed it was going higher.
Marie's profit now amounted to about $2,300.00.
Robert was going to Sherman, Texas, on Saturday
afternoon, and Monday being Decoration Day, he would
not return until Monday night. He had a talk with
Mr. Kennelworth before leaving and Mr. Kennelworth
told him that he had been buying more corn on the way
up and more cotton; that he now had a profit of about
$25,000.00, all of which was due to Robert's advice.
Robert said that he was going away to see Marie and

108
confided that he was going to try to get her to elope with
him and go to New York. Mr. Kennelworth told him
that be could take the good news to Marie that he was
going to give them a wedding present of $10,000.00,
which was less than half of the profits he had made.
He was going to continue to hold the cotton until Robert
thought it was time to sell.
On the afternoon of May 28th, Robert boarded a train
for Sherman, Texas, with the lightest heart that he had
ever experienced in his life. Now that his dream was
really going to be realized, he was never so happy. He
figured that with the money he had made and with
Marie's money, and the $10,000.00 which Mr.Kennelworth was going to give them, he would have about
$18,000.00 which would give him capital to continue
to speculate in the market and money for his plans on
his great airplane.
As the train rolled across the plains of Texas and
Robert watched the sun setting across the prairies on
that Saturday afternoon, he dreamed of the day when
he, like Lindbergh, would cross the country in his great
airplane. He could think of nothing else but Lindbergh's great flight and what it meant to the world. He
realized that Ezekiel's prophecy of that war which was
to come and be fought in the air, was coming true, and
the great plane described by Ezekiel, the eagle with
wheel within a wheel, would one day become a reality.
He could now see the possibilities of his dream being
fulfilled and he was sure of success.
Marie welcomed him with enthusiasm and open arms.
She was so proud of him and so happy that he made

109
good in the market. He had been so thoughtful to buy
cotton and corn for her and sold out the corn with
$1,100.00 profit. She told Robert that he was a wonder that he was one of the greatest young men in the
world and a genius, and that he would be a greater
man than Lindbergh when he was as old as Lindbergh.
Robert said that on June 9th, he would be 21 years
of age, and on that day he wanted to be married and
start on his career as a real man. He wanted to go
back to Texarkana after the holidays, wind up his affairs
and get ready to go to New York. Wanted her to go
with him, starting Saturday, June 4th, so they would
arrive on Sunday, June 5th, in St. Louis, be married,
and proceed immediately to New York. He asked
Marie what she thought about going to her father, telling him he had now made good and had enough money
to start out, and ask his consent to their marriage.
Marie said that it was useless; that her father would
never consent to her leaving school and being married,
no matter how much money the man she was going to
marry had to take care of her. Her father was bent
on her finishing her education and she knew it would
be a hopeless case. There was no use talking about it.
She asked Robert if he didn't think it would be better
for her to remain in school for another year or two,
to finish her education, and then she could join him in
New York and be married. She thought it possible that
he might get along better for a while without her. But
Robert would not listen to this and told her that he
would never go without her. His future happiness and
success depended upon her love and encouragement.

110
Her love had guided him safely thus far and would lead
him on to greater things. He had dreamed of the time
when he would come home at night from his work or
study, to find her there and see her beautiful eyes, the
lights that would guide him on to success. She could
either make him the most miserable man in the world
or the happiest. His entire future and fate were in her
hands and she could do with him as she willed. Marie
agreed to keep her promise she had made to him long
before, -- that regardless of money or conditions, she
would leave father, mother, brothers and sisters, and go
with him anywhere, even unto the ends of the earth,
and that if he insisted, she would elope because she
knew that was the only way since her father would not
give his consent.
On Sunday, May 29th, Robert and Marie went to
Dallas, Texas. They had planned when they were ready
to elope, that Marie would leave from Dallas on the
"Sunshine Special" in the afternoon of June 4th. She
was to keep her plans absolutely secret and Robert was
to board the same train that night at Texarkana, and
after the train was out of Texarkana, he was to find her,
go on to St. Louis together, be married there on Sunday morning, and leave Sunday noon for New York.
Robert was extremely happy and talked of nothing but
the success that was to come to them; of his great plane
that he was to build and the part it would take in protecting the country in the great air battle which he was
sure was yet to come, when foreign countries thru
their jealousy, would attack the United States from the
air and do great damage to this country. He told her

111
that in the end Uncle Sam would win; that the Stars
and Stripes would proudly float from the great buildings
in New York, and that they would live to see that day
and he wanted her there with him when his great "ship"
would help win the victory for his country. Walter
Kennelworth was in the city and they were going to
work together on inventions and discoveries that would
help win the war which he knew was sure to come.
It was the most interesting and pleasant Sunday that
they had ever spent together. They drove around Dallas
and talked over their future plans. Sunday afternoon
they returned to Sherman, and Monday forenoon Robert spent with Marie. They went out to the cemetery
and placed some flowers upon the graves of soldiers who
had lost their lives in defense of their country.
Robert talked of the great feat of Lindbergh and of
the honors that he would receive from the foreign countries, and told Marie what a great time they would have,
as Mr. Kennelworth was going to New York and they
would all be there at the great reception when Lindbergh returned. He said good-bye to her on Monday
afternoon and started back for Texarkana, knowing
that the next time he would meet her, would be on board
the train for St. Louis, where she would become his
wife.
From that time on, Robert counted the minutes, in
anticipation of the great happiness of the following
Sunday when they would be married in St. Louis. He
was strongly attracted to St. Louis because Lindbergh
had left from there in the "Spirit of St. Louis," on his
successful flight. He thought it would be good luck to

112
marry in St. Louis and start from there to New York
to spend their honeymoon.
On Tuesday morning, May 31st, Robert started early
to Mr. Kennelworth's office as that was to be his last
day in the office and be was anxious to clean up all the
business necessary and render Mr. Kennelworth all the
service possible before he went away. He confided to
Mr. Kennelworth the arrangements of eloping with
Marie. Mr. Kennelworth told him that he would arrange to go to New York about the 11th of June and
was sorry that he couldn't make the trip with Marie and
Robert and see them married in St. Louis. But he said
to Robert, "That is the time when two young people
like to be alone, and I am afraid that I wouldn't be a
very good chaperon on the trip. So it is all for the
best and you will get along all right without me."
Robert told Mr. Kennelworth that he figured according to his cycle theory, cotton should be sold out about
June 1st or 2nd, that there would be a reaction. He
had also figured that it was time to sell wheat and corn
for a reaction.
On June 1st, Robert sold out his July cotton at
16.80 and also sold out Marie's cotton. Robert's profits and capital together now amounted to $7,000.00.
Robert sold 25,000 July wheat at 1.48 1/2 and 25,000
July corn at 1.06 1/2 on June 1st. He went down to
the broker's office to watch the market for that week,
because he knew the next few days would be very important and anxious days for him. He was thinking
every minute of the day when he would start to New
York and would make Marie his wife. This would

113
be the greatest start of all his life, as he was starting
it under favorable conditions and with plenty of money.
He knew that success was certain and was never more
hopeful.
On Saturday, June 4th, he closed his short contract
in July wheat at 1.43 and his corn contract at 1.02.
He had made a profit of over $2,000.00 on wheat which
brought his capital up to $9,000.00. Mr. Kennelworth
had taken Robert's advice and gone short of wheat and
corn on June 1st, after selling out his cotton. Cotton
declined from June 1st as Robert figured it would. He
told Mr. Kennelworth on Saturday morning that he was
going to buy in his wheat and corn, because he was
getting ready to go away that afternoon and was not
going to make any more trades until he had arrived in
New York. He would have everything in cash and
ready to make a new start after the honeymoon.
Mr. Kennelworth had sold wheat and corn heavily
and had made over $50,000.00 since he started to follow
Robert's advice. He made back all the money he had
lost in the slump in oil stocks in 1919 and was very
grateful to Robert. He handed Robert New York exchange for $10,000.00 as a wedding present. Told him
that he could call on him for any additional help that
he wanted in financing the building of his airplane or
for any other purpose. Robert assured him that he
would not need any more help; that he could make all
the money he wanted and that his success was assured.
Robert told Mr. Kennelworth that he made over
$4,000.00 for Marie on her little capital of $400.00
with which she had started. Mr. Kennelworth was very

114
much elated over this. This was the first time he had
heard about Marie putting up $400.00 to buy cotton.
He told Robert she was the kind of a woman to marry,
the one who believed in him and would back him with
her money and everything else. He believed it was love
of the right kind -- that success was sure to follow.
Robert was so happy that afternoon that he called Marie
on the long-distance 'phone, and told her of his great
success in the market in wheat and the money Mr.
Kennelworth had made; told her that they had now a
working capital of around $25,000.00 and with that
much money, in New York it would be only a question
of a few years when he would be a millionaire. The
main thing, however, was not money but the use he
wanted to put it to in completing his invention. Marie
was very happy and told him that she was making arrangements to go to Dallas and would leave there that
afternoon on the "Sunshine Special," and after the train
pulled out of Texarkana, he would find her on board.
He was to keep everything quiet and not let anybody
know anything about the elopement, as her father might
try to stop her. No one in Texarkana but Robert's
mother and Mr. Kennelworth knew about the secret
elopement. Robert kept everything quiet about his resigning from Mr. Kennelworth's and going to New
York, because he thought that there might be some leak
somewhere and that Mr. Stanton might find out about
Marie's elopement and stop it.

115
CHAPTER XI

AT 7 P.M. June 4th, 1927, Robert walked into
Railroad Station at Texarkana and bought a ticket
for St. Louis, with a reservation on the "Sunshine
Special." This was the greatest and happiest moment
of his life. He knew that Marie was already on her way
and that in a couple of hours the train would arrive and
he would go aboard for St. Louis, where he was to make
her his wife. After buying his ticket, he went over to
the Huckins Hotel and met Mr. Kennelworth for a final
conference and to say good-bye. He told Mr. Kennelworth that he figured it would be time to buy cotton
on a little reaction Monday morning, and also time to
buy wheat again. Mr. Kennelworth assured him that
he was going to plunge on his profits, and if he lost
money now, it would be out of profits. He was going
to get into the market and try to make a lot more money
before he went to New York. Robert said that he intended to wire his broker from St. Louis to buy cotton
and wheat for him on Monday morning.
Mr. Kennelworth bid Robert good-bye with all good
wishes for success and said he was sure he was going
to succeed, but that if failure and disappointment should
come, he should always remember that he could rely
upon him; that a young man often had trouble and disappointment and made many mistakes before he reached
his goal and that if anything went wrong in the market,

116
he could always come to him and ask for any aid possible and he would gladly grant it. He thought as much
of Robert as he did of his own son, Walter, and wanted
them to work together in New York, and was sure that
they could be a great success. He wanted Robert to
encourage Walter to continue his studies along chemical
lines, because he believed that Walter would be able
to make some great discoveries and they could work
together to good advantage.
The "Sunshine Special" was a little late on Saturday
night, June 4th, and Robert's heart was in his throat.
He was anxious for that train to roll in. Finally, when
the whistle blew and the signal light in the yard of the
Texas Pacific showed the "Sunshine Special" was rolling in, the glare of the headlights on the train was the
most welcome sight that Robert had ever witnessed
thru all the days of his life. He boarded the train as
quickly as possible and sat down nervous and anxious
awaiting the moment when the train would get about
20 miles out of Texarkana, so that he might go back
and look for Marie.
The minutes passed slowly away and it seemed like
years before the train crossed the Red River and Robert
decided that it was safe to go back to the car where
Marie was and see her. He found Marie all anxious
and nervously awaiting his arrival. She flew into his
arms and seemed the happiest woman in the world and
Robert was too happy for words. They sat there and
talked of their future plans until after midnight.
Marie told Robert that she knew if her father found
out she was eloping, he would make every effort to stop

117
her and prevent their marriage, as she was not of age,
and he was anxious that she complete her education.
Robert asked her if she had any regrets in the steps she
was taking, and she told him she did not, that if she
did have, she would never have started. She thought
it was wonderful that Robert had been able to make
money so rapidly and was very happy that he had stuck
to the Bible and studied so hard, and now was getting
his reward for his faith and hard work. She expressed
her supreme confidence in him and the work that he
intended to do. Robert hoped it would be a beautiful
sunshiny Sunday morning when they arrived in St.
Louis, so that they could be married and then proceed
to New York.
Marie seemed very enthusiastic over the prospect of
getting to St. Louis. Robert had a little surprise for
her, and she asked him to tell her what it was. But
he said, she must wait until they arrived in St. Louis.
"Robert, just suppose the train should be wrecked and I
should be killed, or something should happen that I
would never see you again, don't you think you had
better tell me about the surprise now?" He said, "No,
there is not going to be any wreck. Good luck is following us, and the surprise will keep until tomorrow
morning." She said, "Robert, I may not be able to
sleep. I don't think I can sleep anyway, after all this
excitement and happiness and everything that is to come
in the future." Robert knew that he couldn't sleep
either, but he would go up to his car, lie down and try
to get some rest before they arrived in St. Louis the
next morning. They agreed to meet early in the morn-

118
ing and go back into the dining car for breakfast before
they arrived in St. Louis.
Robert returned to his berth and tried to rest, but
found that he couldn't sleep. He thought over what
Marie had said about -- "suppose the train should be
wrecked, or something should happen that you should
never see me again." He thought that nothing could
happen to separate Marie from him, but just the same
it was the thought that she said something might happen. He felt lonesome being separated from Marie.
She was two cars back, but he felt that the good God
who had endowed him with faith would protect Marie,
and that no harm would come to her; that there was no
danger of a wreck on the "Sunshine Special" and that
there was sunshine waiting for Marie and himself. In
the wee small hours of the morning, Robert dozed off
and had a few hours of sound sleep. He arose early
and dressed. About 8 o'clock, he hurried back to
Marie's car, to take her to breakfast. When he arrived
at her berth, he found it empty. He went back to the
dining-car to look for Marie, but couldn't find her there,
and then went on thru to the end of the train, but was
unable to locate Marie. The Pullman porter told him
that he hadn't seen her that morning and the last he
saw of her was when Robert was talking to her in the
berth late that night. Robert then searched the train
again from one end to the other and become uneasy and
anxious about Marie. He returned again to her car
and had the porter look for her baggage, and after looking thru the car, found that it was gone. Robert
was now almost frantic and could not imagine what

119
could have happened to her, because her baggage was
gone. The porter assured him that there had been no
hold-up of the train that night and that nothing unusual had happened. He had been up all night helping
people get on and off at different stations but had seen
nothing of Marie at any time. The train conductor was
notified and the Pullman-car conductor was told. Both
of them searched the train from one end to the other,
and nowhere could Marie be found.
Robert did not explain to the conductor or the porter
that they were to be married in St. Louis that morning.
The conductor told him that it seemed plain that in
some way during the night, she must have left the
train because her baggage was gone. Robert was now
almost in a state of collapse. He imagined all kinds
of things which might have happened to Marie.
Thought that she might have become insane during the
night, and had thrown her baggage out of the window,
and jumped out. Thought her father might in some
way have found out about her plans and had some officer
or someone secreted on the train who had taken Marie
off at some point enroute. But no matter what he
thought or imagined, it was no relief to his mind because he did not know where Marie was. All his future
happiness was blasted in a moment.
By the time the search was over, the train was nearing
St. Louis. Robert began to think of all the things he
could and must do to try and find Marie. The first
thing he thought of was to wire Mr. Kennelworth, and
have him make a search and ascertain whether her
father or mother knew anything about what had hap-

120
pened. The railroad conductor and Pullman conductor
had tried to cheer Robert up and assure him that nothing seriously wrong could have happened to her, and
that for some unknown reason she must have left the
train at some station during the night without anyone
knowing it, because they were sure that she could not
have jumped out or fallen from the window without
someone knowing about it and they thought there was
nothing to worry about. Robert had decided on sending telegrams and making every search possible to locate
her. He put his hand in his inside pocket to find
a pencil and draw out a wallet. In the pocket was an
envelope addressed to him in Marie's handwriting. He
did not know where it had come from or how it could
have gotten into his pocket, but he hurriedly tore the
envelope open and this is what he read:
June 5, 1927 -- 3 A.M.
DEAREST ROBERT:
According to your faith, be I unto you. Love will always
have faith, understand and wait. Time proves all things.
You will get everything you want. I will come to you when I
mean the most and your need for love is the greatest.
Lovingly always,
MARIE.
When Robert finished reading this little note, tears
were streaming down his face. He was frantic. He
knew that the mysterious letter was written by Marie's
own hand and must have been written on the train and
for some unknown reason she was leaving him. He at
once thought of his great faith in her, and his faith in
God and the future as he read. He wondered what this

121
could mean: "According to your faith be I unto you -love will always have faith, understand and wait."
Robert thought, "How can I understand, how can I
wait, when I left her only a few hours ago supremely
happy anticipating being married a few hours later in
St. Louis, and going on to New York to spend our
future lives together. What in the world can she mean
by, 'time proves all things.'" Time had proved his
faith and love for her. She had had faith in him and
had encouraged him; had put up the $400.00 she had
saved, not to make money for herself but to try to help
him. She told him that she didn't want the money, but
wanted him to use it in any way that would help him.
Then he pondered the next line where she said: "You
will get everything you want." He thought, "My God,
there is only one thing that I do want, there is only one
thing in this world that means anything to me and
that is my Marie, and where will I find her." Reading
the next line over and over, "I will come to you when
I mean the most and your need for love is the greatest."
He almost exclaimed aloud, "My God, my God, now
is the time that I need her the most. I will never need
her more. How can I go on? Life will be a blank.
I will be a dismal failure without her." He wondered
if there ever could be a time in the future when he
would need her more, when she would mean more to
him, than she meant at this moment.
He could imagine no unfriendly circumstances, no
break of any kind that would cause Marie to change
in a few hours and decide to turn back from the step
she had taken. He could not understand how she could

122
have slipped to his berth in the wee small hours of
the morning and placed this note in his inside coat pocket.
It was her handwriting, and he knew that Marie had
written it. But why! why! why!
As the train rolled into the Union Station at St.
Louis he stood in the car dazed, with her letter crumpled
in his hand. With a heavy heart he made his way to the
station and sat down to think what he could or should
do. Finally, he decided to send a telegram and lay the
circumstances of Marie's disappearance before Mr. Kennelworth and ask his advice before making any move.
Robert realized that he must have time to collect his
thoughts, if he ever could think again. His thoughts
turned back to the dream Marie had told him she had,
where some terrible tragedy had overtaken him and she
had gone out of his life in a mysterious way and came
back into it in the same way. He wondered if at that
time Marie had had any doubt that she might not
want to continue to carry out the plans agreed on. Then
he thought of what she said just before bidding goodnight in the train, when she had asked him to tell her
what the surprise was he had for her and said to him
that the train might wreck and kill her or that something might happen to separate them. He wondered
then if she had something in her mind which she
thought might separate them during the night, or if she
intended to hide from him in some way.
But he must get all that out of his mind -- must have
faith in Marie, must understand and wait. Then like
a flash he became contented. Thought it was all a
joke that Marie had played on him, that she was hiding

123
somewhere in the train and in a few minutes would
show up, so he decided not to send a telegram to Mr.
Kennelworth but simply stay in the station and wait.
He opened his suit case and took out the Bible, and
there began to read from St. Paul, who said that love
suffers long and is kind, seeks not its own, is not easily
provoked and thinks no evil. Robert resolved to have
patience, to have faith in Marie, and never doubt her,
and never to think any evil of her no matter what happened. His mind was relieved. He felt happy and
more cheerful, and was hopeful.
He waited a short time in the station, hoping Marie
would join him. The seconds drifted away like weeks,
the minutes seemed like months, and when an hour had
gone by, to Robert it seemed like years. He waited
and hoped; watched in every direction for Marie's beautiful eyes, the eyes he told her he loved so much and
always wanted them to greet him when he came home
from his work because they were an inspiration. Slowly
the hands on the great clock in the Union Station showed
it was nearly 12 o'clock noon. Robert listened attentively as the old clock tolled twelve times for 12 o'clock
and each time it seemed that the blood from his heart
was slowly trickling away. Hope was fast giving away
to despair. Robert found his patience waning, but that
was not to be. He must trust to the word of God which
said: "O, ye of little faith, saith the Lord," and must
try to find Marie who meant everything to him.
As the last stroke of the clock died slowly away,
Robert started to think again. He finally decided that
he would stay in the Union Station and have patience

124
to wait one more hour for Marie. He thought that she
was really playing a joke on him and would surely come
by 1 o'clock. While he waited he continued to read
the Bible: "The heavenly Shepherd is leading you in
the right way to his own blessed fold. Leave all to
him, to his faithfulness, his love, his power, his watchful, sleepless care." Robert decided to trust, to have
faith and leave it all to God that He might protect
Marie and bring her safely back to him.
Then he read the poem by Gerhart:
"The prison where thou art
Thy God will break it soon,
And flood with light thy heart
In his own blessed noon."
Robert thought how happy he would have been, as he
expected by this time to be married to Marie and happily on their way to New York to celebrate their honeymoon. The hour had drifted slowly away and it was
now a quarter to one. Robert was troubled and discouraged, but had not lost hope. He opened his Bible
and read -- Job 6: 8:
"Oh that I might have my request, and that God would
grant me the thing that I long for!"
Robert knew that he longed for Marie and believed
that if he had faith God would answer his prayers. He
read again -- Job 6: 11-13:
"What is my strength, that I should hope? and what is
mine end, that I should prolong my life?
Is not my help in me? and is wisdom driven quite
from me?"

125
This was a great consolation to Robert. He realized
that at last in desperation like Job he must hope and
have faith; that his wisdom and strength was in himself and that if he had faith in God and trusted him
that he would find Marie; that he would be able to overcome trials and tribulations and would have wisdom and
faith to hold on and hope until he realized his dream
and again found Marie. Robert remembered reading
in the Bible where it said:
"Whom God loveth he chastiseth."
He thought that Marie was chastising him to try his
faith and decided that he would not lose patience no
matter what happened, that he would seek her to the
ends of the earth.
Robert watched the movement of every woman who
passed thru the gates of the Union Station for Marie,
but each minute brought bitter disappointment. His
heart, which but a few hours ago was filled with love
and happiness, was sad. Robert looked up as the hands
on the clock in the Union Station pointed to 1 o'clock,
-- the time that he had appointed unto himself to wait
without taking some action to try to find Marie. No
Marie was in sight. He walked over to the news stand
and bought a paper and decided to sit down for a few
minutes and try to read. As he slowly turned the pages
of the paper looking for something he knew not what,
suddenly his eyes fell upon the heading; "The Best
Thing on Earth" by R. L. Cole. The first thought that
entered Robert's mind was that the best thing on earth
was Marie and that the greatest thing in the world was
love. He read the entire article.

126
CHAPTER XII
THE BEST THING ON EARTH
By R. L. COLE

JOHN WANAMAKER said: "I have for the gov-
ernment, and in my own business, made contracts
involving millions of dollars. I have signed checks for
millions of dollars, but the greatest purchase I ever
made in my life was when I was 11 years old. I saved
every penny of my hard-earned money and bought a
Bible that cost $2.75. That was my best investment
and has had most to do with the rest of the riches of
my life. Every other investment I have ever made
holds a secondary place to the first and greatest one of
them all."
Lord Bacon, the literary genius and philosopher,
lifted the Bible one day above his head, and said:
"There God speaks."
God speaks in the first verse, saying: "In the beginning God!" And all through the Book we find expressions as "Thus saith the Lord," "the word of the Lord
came," "God said," "the Lord commanded," etc.
These expressions are used four thousand times in the
Bible, thus indelibly stamping the divine mark.
"All scripture is given by inspiration of God." Inspiration means breathed into. God breathed his

127
thoughts into the Book. The Book contains the breath
of God, and lives because God lives.
Jesus said: "Heaven and earth shall pass away but
my word shall not pass away."
The Bible tells us things we get nowhere else. It
tells us of the beginning, for only God was in the beginning. It tells of the beginning of creation, the beginning of the human race, the beginning of the human
family; the beginning of sin, the beginning of redemption; the beginning of the arts, sciences, music, agriculture, of nations and languages. Of the Hebrews, of
law, etc.
Much of ancient history of the earliest times is borrowed from the Bible.
The Bible tells of things that are to occur thousands
of years in the future. The destruction of Babylon,
Nineveh, Tyre and Jerusalem was foretold in detail
and has come to pass exactly as was predicted.
The first coming of Jesus Christ was foretold -- that
He would come to the tribe of Judah, would be born of
a virgin, would be born in Bethlehem, would come out
of Egypt and would grow up in Nazareth, would be
despised and rejected of men, would work miracles,
would be betrayed by one of his own followers, would
be falsely accused, crucified. That they would gamble
for his garment; would be buried in another man's
tomb, would rise again; that His gospel would be
preached to all nations; that to Him would be given a
name greater than any name. All these prophecies
have been fulfilled. The prophecies of the Bible are
yet being fulfilled, and will all be fulfilled.

128
In Naomi we are told that in the day of His preparation the rivers shall be opened, the palace shall be
dissolved and chariots shall be flaming torches, shall run
like the lightning and rage in the street. Notice this
prophecy: the bridges shall be opened. The suspension
bridge opens our rivers. The palaces shall be dissolved.
They have been.
Russia and Germany are notable examples. We are
living in an era of democracy. The flaming chariots
running like the lightning so much like the automobile.
In Isaiah we are told that with the coming in of the
Gentiles to the brightness of His rising they shall fly
as doves to their windows. That sounds like the airships.
The Bible is a priceless book because it makes promises no other book can make. It promises pardon, salvation, eternal life, soul rest, peace, comfort, strength
and succor; victory over trials and temptations; strength
in the dying hour, and heaven for all eternity.
The Bible is priceless because it is indestructible. For
two thousand years the critics have hurled against it
their anathemas, and it still lives. Time and again it
has been gathered up and burned, and its advocates for
ages were persecuted and put to death, but it has survived fires and floods.
A popular author of fiction boasts 9,000,000 copies
of his book published in eight years. 240,000,000
copies of the Bible have been sold in the same eight
years.
Another publisher boasts that his book has been

129
printed in 23 languages. The Bible is published in 770
different languages and dialects.
Last we passed beside a blacksmith's door,
And heard the anvil ring the vesper chime,
Then looking in, I saw upon the floor
Old hammers worn with beating years of time.
"How many anvils have you had," said I,
"To wear and batter all your hammers so?"
"Just one," said he, then with a twinkling eye,
"The anvil wears the hammers out you know."
And so thought I, the anvil of God's word,
For ages skeptics' blows have beat upon,
Yet thru the noise of falling blows was heard.
The anvil was unharmed -- the hammers gone.
Last we passed beside, etc.
Hume gone, Voltaire gone, Tom Paine gone, Bob
Ingersoll gone. The present-day enemies in the church
and out of the church will wear their hammers out.
God's word that has for two thousand years endured
the test, will endure and stand forever.
The individual or nation that believes the Book, and
lives according to its teaching, will live as long as the
Book lives, and the individual or nation that spurns it
will go down.
Martin Luther gave the Bible to Germany and for
generations Germany respected and loved the Book, and
lived. Then Germany began in her schools to criticise
and spurn the Book and brought on the World War.
Germany by turning away from the Book, committed
suicide, and so shall it be with any nation.

130
God forbid that America should ever turn away from
the Bible!
“Lord God of hosts be with us yet
Let we forget, lest we forget.
We’ve traveled together, my Bible and I,
Thru all kinds of weather, with smile or with sigh.
In sorrow or sunshine, in tempest or calm,
Thy friendship unchanging; my lamp and my psalm.
We’ve traveled together, my Bible and I,
When life has grown weary, and death e’en was nigh;
But all thru the darkness of mist and of wrong,
I found thee a solace, a prayer and a song.
So now who shall part us, my Bible and I.
Shall isms or schism or new lights who shall try?
Shall shadow for substance, or stone for good bread
Supplant its sound wisdom, give folly instead?
Ah no, my dear Bible, revealer of light,
Thou sword of the spirit, put error to flight;
And still thru life’s journey, until the last sigh;
We’ll travel together, my Bible and I.”
*

*

*

*

*

These statements agreed exactly with Robert’s views.
He had found his greatest help in the Bible and knew
John Wanamaker was right when he said that the greatest purchase he ever made in his life was when he was
11 years old and bought the Bible for $2.75. As Robert
read:
“Heaven and earth shall pass away but my word shall
not pass away,”
he remembered that the Bible said that whenever you

131
pray, believe that you have it and you shall. As he knew
that all things are possible with the Lord, he determined
to pray believing that Marie would soon return to him.
Robert was much impressed with the statement that
all the prophecies of the Bible are being fulfilled and
will be fulfilled. He knew that every promise that God
had ever made to man, he had kept. This renewed Robert’s faith and again he read Marie’s note where it said:
“According to your faith, be I unto you,” and Robert
thought that if faith would bring Marie back to him
she would surely come. He knew that time would never
change his love and that there was no other woman
but Marie for him. He would live, work and hope for
Marie until he found her, but if she had gone from him
forever and such bad news should come to him, he knew
that he would bury all life and that hope would depart
from him and life would not be worth living.
At the end of the article he read the poem on the
Bible and was much impressed with these lines:
“Ah no, my dear Bible, revealer of light,
Thou sword of the spirit, put error to flight;
And still thru life’s journey, until the last sigh;
We’ll travel together, my Bible and I."
Robert felt that this article had been written especially
for him when he needed it most, making him realize
the value of his Bible and the trust he should put in it,
applying its wisdom to his present problem and troubles.
By the time Robert had finished reading this article,
it was after 1:30 P.M. and he decided that it was hopeless to wait longer for Marie, that something radically
wrong had happened and she had either gone away

132
or an accident had befallen her. He must make some
plans for locating her. Decided to go to a hotel and
call Mr. Kennelworth on long-distance 'phone at Texarkana. With this plan in mind, he made his way to
the hotel, registered and as soon as he was assigned to
his room, put in a long-distance call for Mr. Kennelworth. Mr. Kennelworth was at his residence and it
was only a question of a few minutes until he had him
on the 'phone. Between sobs, he told his sad story to
Mr. Kennelworth about Marie’s disappearance and
asked his advice. Mr. Kennelworth told him that he
thought for some reason Marie may have decided to
return to school and complete her education, and probably was at that time on her way back to Sherman. The
best plan would be to wait until the next night to see
if she returned, altho it was possible that she might
get back late that night. Mr. Kennelworth told Robert
that he would go to see her father and find out any
information he could for him. Robert was to remain
at the hotel and if he got any information, he would
telephone him. He advised Robert to notify the railroad authorities, and have them make a search and inquire at all of the stations where the train stopped that
night on the way from Texarkana to St. Louis, in order
to get a clue to Marie’s disappearance.
After talking with Mr. Kennelworth, Robert got
in touch over the 'phone with the railroad officials in St.
Louis and notified them of Marie’s disappearance from
the train. They promised to send telegrams to all the
station agents, to have all the trains watched and try to
secure some information for him. They were to com-

133
municate with him just as soon as they had anything
definite one way or the other.
Robert now realized that he must go thru the greatest
ordeal yet -- that of waiting hourly for some news of
Marie. He knew the hours would pass slowly and decided to formulate a plan in case Marie did not return
to school or to her home, and if no news came from her
the next day what would be his next move and what he
should do to try to locate her.
The next time Robert noticed the time of day, it
was after 6 P.M. and he realized that he had had no
breakfast, lunch or dinner, but his heart was heavy and
he felt that he could not eat anything. The shock had
been so great and had come so suddenly that Robert
found it hard to adjust himself to it or to realize what
it all meant or what it might mean in case Marie should
pass out of his life forever. It would mean every
hope blasted, every sweet dream gone and would leave
him with an uncertainty of life, like a ship without a
rudder. He decided to pass the time by reading and
seeking consolation in the Bible.
Robert had always been a great admirer of the poet,
S. E. Kiser; always read his poems in the daily newspapers and a few months previous to this time, had
bought a little book entitled, “Poems That Have Helped
Me,” collected by S. E. Kiser. He remembered that
he had this little book that he liked so much in his
suit-case so he unpacked it to look for the book and as
he did, he came across the present, the surprise that he
had for Marie, that he had told her about before and
refused to give to her or tell her more about it until

134
they arrived in St. Louis. The present was a wedding
ring set with diamonds and a beautiful brooch made of
two hearts woven together and tied with a cluster of
diamonds and pearls. This was to be the great surprise
for Marie and he was going to present it to Marie after
they were married, as a token of the two hearts that
now beat as one. Robert looked at this and thought
of how the diamonds represented Marie in all of her
beauty and that she was a pearl of great price.
It was too much for him. He broke down completely
and wept like a baby. Alone he was -- the most alone
he had ever been in his life before -- away from friends,
away from mother, and above all, separated from Marie,
who meant more than life to him. He sobbed for
hours. His heart was breaking, but with a wondering
mind, he realized that he must have strength, and that
he must have faith and hope on -- hope and believe that
Marie was alive and he knew that if she were alive, there
was hope.
He picked up his favorite little book, “Poems That
Helped Me,” and started to read. The first one that
caught his eye was, “Faith” by Tennyson:
“We have but faith; we cannot know;
For knowledge is of things we see;
And yet we trust it comes from thee,
A beam of darkness: let it grow.
Let knowledge grow from more to more,
But more of reverence in us dwell;
That mind and soul, according well,
May make one music as before,

135
But vaster. We are fools and slight;
We mock thee when we do not fear;
But help thy foolish ones to bear;
Help thy vain worlds to bear thy light.
Forgive what seemed my sin in me;
What seem’d my worth since I began;
For merit lies from man to man,
And not from man, O Lord, to thee.”
This cheered Robert and he resolved to have more
faith, realizing that while he could not see or understand Marie’s action he must have faith and love and
trust her, and trust that time would bring understanding
and solve the problem.
He read another poem by Aubrey de Vere, and these
words seemed to sink into his heart as he read them:
“Hid it; dropt it on the moors!
Lost it, and you cannot find it” -My own heart I want, not yours
You have bound and must unbound it.
Set it free then from your net,
We will love, sweet -- but not yet!
Fling it from you -- we are strong
Love is trouble, love is folly;
Love, that makes an old heart young,
Makes a young heart melancholy.”
Robert felt that love might be trouble, but that love
was the greatest and sweetest thing in the world and
that he would go thru any troubles in the world, suffer
anything, only to regain Marie and her love. As Robert slowly turned the pages of the little book, his eyes
fell upon another poem, “Courage” by Thos. F. Porter:

136
“What if the morn no joy to you shall bring,
No gleam of sunbeam shine across your way;
What if no bird one joyous note shall sing
Into your listening ear thru all the day!
What if no word of comfort you shall hear
As thru the hours long you toil and strive;
What if to you no vision bright appear
To keep your hungry heart and soul alive!
What if the blest companionship men crave
Come not to you thru all the day’s long length,
But, bound and fettered even as a slave,
Within yourself you have to find your strength!
And if, when you have toiled and wrought alone,
The sweet reward you sought you do not gain,
And find the hoped-for bread is but stone,
In that sad hour for grief, should you compalin?
Ah no! It matters not if shade or sun,
Or good or ill, your efforts shall attend;
In doing you have but your duty done
As best you knew -- and should do to the end.”
He eagerly devoured the words one by one, because
he was looking for something to give him courage to
go thru this terrible ordeal. He thought that this poem
would do. It surely had been written for him in this
very hour of trouble and realized with Job he must find
his strength within himself and have courage, hope and
faith.
He then read another little poem from the book; “Not
in Vain” by Emily Dickinson:
“If I can stop one heart from breaking,
I shall not live in vain:
If I can ease one life the aching,

137
Or cool one pain,
Or help one fainting robin
Unto his nest again,
I shall not live in vain.”
Robert felt that he had tried always to be kind and
considerate and charitable towards others, and knew
that he must go on regardless of what happened, and
live his life hoping to find Marie. About this time,
Robert, tired, hungry and worn out fell asleep. The
next time that he remembered anything, he awoke on
Monday morning with the sun streaming in thru the
window of his hotel and realized that he had fallen
asleep. The little book, “Poems That Have Helped
Me,” lay on the bed beside him. Because the sun was
coming in the east window he knew that he must have
slept thru some part of the night, and it was now morning. His first thought was of Marie, and of any news
that might have come. Picking up the little book, the
first thing that struck his eye was the poem, “Press
On” by Park Benjamin:
“Press on! Surmount the rocky steps,
Climb boldly o’er the torrent’s arch;
He fails alone who feebly creeps,
He wins who dares the hero’s march.
Be thou a hero! Let thy might
Tramp on eternal snows its way,
And thru the ebon walls of night
Hew down a passage unto day.
Press on! If once and twice thy feet
Slip back and stumble, harder try;
From him who never dreads to meet
Danger and death they’re sure to fly.

138
To coward ranks the bullet speeds,
While on their breasts who never quail,
Gleams, guardian of chivalric deeds,
Bright courage like a coat of mail.
Press on! If Fortune play thee false
To day, tomorrow she’ll be true;
Whom now she sinks she now exalts,
Taking old gifts and granting new,
The wisdom of the present hour
Makes up the follies past and gone;
To weakness strength succeeds, and power
From frailty springs! Press on, press on!
Robert hastily read this poem and found some consolation in it. He resolved that he would press on, and
hastened down stairs to the hotel desk to inquire if any
telegrams had been received for him, or if any longdistance call had come during the night when he had
fallen asleep, but again he met with disappointment.
There were no telegrams and there had been no 'phone
calls.
Robert felt very faint and weak because he was hungry. He had not eaten all day Sunday, and now
realized that he must get something to eat, and
strengthen himself for the ordeal to follow. He went
to the dining-room and ordered a light breakfast but
when the food was served, he found it hard to eat because he thought of the breakfast the Sunday morning
before that he had intended to have eaten with Marie
on the dining-car. Everything he saw reminded him
of her. Her smile was in the glittering sunshine which
played upon the windows in front of him or appeared
in the clear crystal water in the glass and the sweet odor

139
from the flowers on the table brought memories of sweet
kisses and soft caresses which haunted him. Finally,
Robert managed to eat a little, because he knew he must
if he expected to keep up and have strength to fight
on and find Marie.
When he had finished his breakfast, he returned to
his room and decided to call the railroad office again and
ascertain if they had any information for him. The
general passenger agent was there, and was very courteous over the 'phone to Robert. He had taken a great
interest in the case and they had received reports from
every station along the line, but nowhere had any trace
been found of Marie. He assured Robert that the railway company would use every effort to continue the
search and report to him promptly any information that
they received.
Robert decided to call Mr. Kennelworth on the longdistance 'phone at his office in Texarkana and soon got
him on the wire. Mr. Kennelworth said that he had
gone to see Marie’s father, Mr. Stanton, soon after
Robert’s telephone message Sunday afternoon and had
told Mr. Stanton of Robert’s success since he had been
with his firm; how hard Robert had studied and planned
and how he had figured out the cotton and grain markets
and the large amount of money that he had made on
such a small capital. He confided to Mr. Stanton the
secret of how Marie had saved up her money and how
much money Robert had made on the $400.00 which he
had invested for her. Mr. Stanton and his wife were much
impressed with the story and felt that they had been
wrong in opposing Marie’s love for Robert and their

140
marriage. They told Mr. Kennelworth that when Marie
returned they would give her their consent to marry
Robert then or any time later. They felt that they
might be to blame for any harm that would come to
Marie or for the sorrows that Robert was suffering.
However, they were hopeful that Marie was either returning home or was on her way back to Sherman,
Texas, to complete her education, and, therefore, were
not greatly alarmed and intended to wait until Monday
afternoon to find out if Marie had gone back to Sherman. Mr. Kennelworth stated that Mr. and Mrs. Stanton wished him to convey their sympathy to Robert
and to tell him that they had great faith in him and
wanted to help make him and Marie happy.
This message was great consolation to Robert because
he felt that it was going to solve the problem, that no
matter what had prompted Marie’s decision to leave
the train and not to go ahead and marry him when she
found that her father and mother had changed their
attitude, she would be only too glad to return to Robert.
They could then be married and continue on to New
York where he could take up his studies and complete
the building of his airship as soon as he had made
enough money to do so.
Mr. Kennelworth told Robert that he would call him
on the 'phone about 8 o’clock that night and let him
know if any word had been received from Marie or if
news was received sooner, he would call immediately,
but at any rate would call at 8 o’clock. Mr. Kennelworth praised Robert and told him not to lose hope but
take a philosophical view of the matter. He felt sure

141
that no harm had come to Marie, for had there been
any accident it certainly would have been discovered
by this time by the railway company. The fact that
Marie’s baggage had disappeared was convincing evidence to him that in some way, at some station during
the night, she had left the train and had probably concealed herself and was waiting to return on another
train, later. He believed before the day was over they
would have some good news in regard to Marie, and
advised Robert to get busy and go right ahead with his
trading in the market and continue to make money, as
he was sure that everything was going to come out all
right.
After Robert received this telephone message he was
more hopeful. He secured a morning newspaper and
found the headlines filled with Lindbergh. Read about
the preparations for Captain Lindbergh’s return to
Washington and New York and the plans for his reception. Of course, Robert had looked forward to being
there at that time and have Marie with him as his wife.
He had been looking forward to the day when his own
dream would be realized and he would build one of
the greatest airships of the age.
Returning to his room, he fell upon his knees and
breathed a prayer; a prayer that only a man whose
heart is filled with love for a good woman can pray.
He prayed to the Universal Power that created the
Universe, the master of land and sea, who rides on the
winds and walks upon the water, to whom all power
was given over heaven and earth. Prayed for strength
and for guidance to do only that which was right and

142
that the good God of the Universe would return Marie
to him in safety. Prayed not only for himself, or the
strength to come to him, but for Marie, for her happiness, for her safety. It was an unselfish prayer; the
kind of a prayer that a mother prays when her child
is lost, when she thinks nothing of herself but only of
the child that she loves.
When Robert arose from the prayer he felt better;
felt that some of the strength of that unseen guiding
hand, which is ever a comfort and in great demand in
time of trouble, had come to him. In God and his word
alone he found comfort and consolation. He realized
the significance of money and how little it meant;
thought how quickly he had made money on a thousand
dollars in the market and now how he would give every
cent of it for just a message from Marie; just to know
that she was alive. He had never tried to make the
money for a selfish purpose, but thought of the things
that it could buy to make Marie happy and give her comfort, and what he might be able to do for his country
in time of war when they would need service and inventions which would protect them against the enemy.
After he had time to collect his thoughts, he decided
to call his old pal, Walter Kennelworth, in New York
on the long-distance telephone and tell him all that had
happened in such a short time.
Robert had not informed Walter that he was coming
to New York at this time. He intended to telegraph
him from St. Louis on Sunday morning after he and
Marie had been married, and, of course, he knew that
Walter would be at the train to meet them on their

143
arrival. After some delay he got Walter on the longdistance 'phone and told him as quickly as possible all
that had happened. Walter was more amused than
shocked at the news and said: “Robert, Marie is just
a little devil and full of fun. She is only testing your
love. There is nothing to worry about. I know her
ways better than you do.” He was sure that everything
would be all right. But Robert felt that too much time
had already elapsed for it to be a joke and that Marie
was not waiting around St. Louis or hiding somewhere
playing a joke that long. It was too serious a matter
for Robert to feel that Marie would punish him in this
way so long. Walter begged Robert to come right on
to New York, but Robert told him he would never leave
St. Louis until he had some definite news, one way or
the other, as to what had happened to Marie.
After his talk with Walter, Robert felt better because
he was his closest friend and it was always a pleasure
to talk with him. He hoped that Walter was right and
that Marie would show up soon. At the same time, he
feared that something might have gone wrong, but every
time this thought occurred he would read Marie’s letter
again and this would give him hope and courage because it plainly said she would come to him when he
needed her most. Of course, he realized that she could
not know just how badly he needed her now and felt
that he would never need her more than he did at that
very moment.
When Robert was troubled and blue it had always
been his practice to read either the Bible or some other
good book. He had a scrap book where he had collected

144
poems and he took this book out and began to look
thru it. He noticed a clipping that he had pasted in
only a short time before headed: “Tomorrow’s Chance,”
by his favorite modern poet, S. E. Kiser:
I may not reach my goal today
Nor move one step ahead;
No effort that I make may pay,
I may lose ground, instead;
But I can try no matter what
Obstructions I shall find,
And let no thought
Of turning from the path I’ve sought
Take root within my mind.
There may be many reasons why
No effort I can make
Shall send my fancies soaring high
Or clear the course I take;
Mischances I could not foresee
May check me everywhere,
But I can be
Determined bravely, faithfully,
To keep my purpose fair.
It may be that at every turn
Discouragement shall lurk;
My lessons may be hard to learn.
Men may condemn my work;
My trust may be betrayed by those
Whom I have thought my friends,
But I can close
My mind against imagined woes,
And strive for worthy ends.

145
No matter how my hopes shall fail,
Or how I fall behind,
I’ll not sit down tonight to wail
That God has been unkind.
But, with a duty to fulfil,
And with a proud, defiant glance,
I’ll prove that still
I have the courage and the will,
And gird me for tomorrow’s chance.
This poem seemed to fit his case and he read it over
carefully. He resolved that regardless of discouragement or disappointment, blasted hopes, lost ideals or
shattered dreams, he would still have the courage to
exert himself for “Tomorrow’s Chance.”
After reading this poem he began to think about the
future and his plans. He knew that he had intended
to go into the market again on Monday or Tuesday,
but the thought came to him -- What good would money
do now, without Marie? However, he remembered her
letter saying, “According to your faith, be I unto you.”
Therefore, braced himself and again determined to have
faith to go on, watching and waiting for Marie.
Robert bought the evening paper and looked over the
financial page and noted that cotton had gone down as
he had figured it would. The following day was the
time that his forecast indicated that it would strike
bottom so he must pull himself together and buy some
cotton, both for his own account and for Marie’s.
Wheat had also declined and he felt that it was time
to buy wheat for another advance as his cycle indicated
an up-trend to run for the next ten days. Robert looked

146
over the stock page and noticed the heading; “Major
Motors advances above 200, a new high level.” Robert
had figured out that Major Motors would not advance
much above 200 before it would be a short sale for big
profits. He figured out from the cycle of Major Motors
that it would hold until along in June and July and that
it would decline to a very low level in 1928, so he decided he was going to go short to hold for a long campaign and make a fortune.
Robert was still holding his Right Aeroplane stock,
which he had bought at 31 on May 21st, the day that
Captain Lindbergh completed his successful flight to
Paris. He figured that he could make a great fortune
by buying Right Aeroplane stock and holding it for
years and at the same time selling Major Motors short.
The markets in Wheat, Cotton, Major Motors and
Right Aeroplane were all doing just exactly as he had
calculated they would. The fact that he was making
money on Right Aeroplane stock encouraged him to continue his work on his own plane.
Robert did not forget sweet Marie or what she meant
to him. At the same time he realized what the study
of the Bible had brought him and felt that thru the
aid of that book and the knowledge and wisdom he had
gained through its teaching, there would be a way to
find Marie if she were alive. He believed she was and
he would hope and wait. But in the meantime he
would try to make some money in order to provide all
the luxuries and comforts for her when he found her.
Since Marie’s father and mother had agreed to withdraw all their opposition to their marriage, he thought

147
that as soon as Marie heard this she would certainly
come to him or communicate with him.
On June 7th, Robert sent a telegram to his broker
to buy 500 bales of October Cotton and 500 bales of
December Cotton at the Opening on Tuesday morning.
He also ordered him to buy 100,000 bushels of July
Wheat and gave an order to sell 500 shares of Major
Motors when it reached 203. After sending these telegrams he returned to the hotel feeling some better and
hoping that when he heard from Mr. Kennelworth on
the long-distance 'phone he would have some good news.
So he ate his dinner and returned to his room to wait
for a message. Later he inquired for telegrams and
'phone calls and was informed that none had been received. He settled himself down in the room and concluded to wait for the long-distance call, hoping that
it would bring good news.
At about 8:15 the telephone rang and Mr. Kennelworth was on the wire. Robert knew from Mr. Kennelworth’s voice that he had no good news. Mr. Kennelworth informed him that no word had been received
from Marie by her parents, and that they had called
up the school in Sherman, Texas, and not a word had
been heard from her there. The school informed them
that she had left school on Saturday afternoon and had
not been seen since. Of course, Robert knew she had
left Sherman to meet him and was now more anxious
and worried than ever and freely expressed his great
anxiety to Mr. Kennelworth. Mr. Kennelworth was
still hopeful and tried to cheer and encourage Robert.
Advised him to go on to New York and wait him there.

148
He had followed Robert’s advice and bought Wheat and
Cotton on Monday afternoon and Robert told him that
he was going to buy the next morning at the Opening.
Mr. Kennelworth said that he planned to leave for New
York at the end of the week. Robert then decided to
stay in St. Louis until he got some definite word, or
anyway remain there until Mr. Kennelworth arrived
and then go on to New York with him. He was anxious
to see Walter as soon as possible but wanted to know
something about what happened to Marie before leaving
for New York. Mr. Kennelworth was confident that
the next day would bring some news from Marie, one
way or the other, and advised Robert to keep cheerful;
that he would inform him just as soon as news came.
After Robert had time to think over the matter, he
decided to place “Personal Notices” in all the newspapers of St. Louis and the towns along the line between
Texarkana and St. Louis. If no news was heard of
Marie by Tuesday evening, he would place it in the
papers the next day. He then wrote out the Notice.
MISS MARIE STANTON -- I FOUND YOUR LITTLE NOTE IN MY
POCKET ON SUNDAY MORNING. HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR YOU
IN ST. LOUIS. MY FAITH IN YOU IS SUPREME. IT WILL NEVER
CHANGE. MONTHS AND YEARS CANNOT CHANGE ME, NO MATTER
WHAT I HEAR OR DO NOT HEAR OR WHAT MAY HAPPEN, I WILL
ALWAYS HAVE FAITH IN YOU AND LOVE YOU. WILL NEVER NEED
YOU MORE THAN NOW. NOTHING ELSE THAT I CAN GET, OR
MONEY THAT I CAN MAKE MATTERS OR MEANS ANYTHING TO
ME WITHOUT YOU. COME TO ME OR COMMUNICATE WITH ME
AND EXPLAIN ALL AND I WILL UNDERSTAND AND AGREE TO ANYTHING YOU MAY DESIRE. MARIE, RELIEVE MY ANXIOUS HEART.
LET ME HEAR FROM YOU. YOUR FATHER AND MOTHER HAVE

149
AGREED TO WITHDRAW THEIR OBJECTIONS AND CONSENT TO OUR
BEING MARRIED. I WILL HAVE FAITH AND WAIT IN ST. LOUIS
UNTIL I HEAR SOMETHING FROM YOU.
ROBERT GORDON,
Address -- Planters Hotel.

Robert decided to read and study some before he retired that night. He read the poem, “How to Live,”
by William Cullen Bryant:
So live, that when thy summons comes to join
The innumerable caravan that moves
To that mysterious realm where each shall take
His chamber in the silent halls of death,
Thou go not, like the quarry slave at night,
Scourged to his dungeon, but sustained and soothed
By an unfaltering trust, approach thy grave
Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch
About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams.
Robert wished that he might be able that night to lie
down to pleasant dreams but he knew that he would
lay down with an unfaltering trust in Marie, that he
would have the faith in her which would move mountains, that he would never doubt her no matter how
long a time passed and would prove that his love for
her was supreme and his faith unfaltering.
Robert read another poem on “Perserverance” by
Goethe:
PERSEVERANCE
We must not hope to be mowers,
And to gather the ripe gold ears,
Unless we have first been sowers
And watered the furrows with tears.

150
It is not just as we take it,
This mystical world of ours,
Life’s field will yield as we make it
A harvest of thorns or of flowers.
He realized that perhaps all the good things of life
do not come to us easily and that we might have to go
through sorrows and trouble to try our faith. Robert
decided to persevere and try to be philosophic and hope,
no matter what happened, and to continue to watch and
wait for good news from Marie.
Before he retired that night, Robert read “The
Golden Hour” by James W. Foley:
I’m sending you one golden hour
From the full jeweled crown of the day;
Not sorrow or care shall have power
To steal this rare jewel away.
I’m bidding you join in the dreaming
I had in that hour of you,
When all of the old dreams, in seeming,
Were gold like the hour, and came true.
So let’s dream like a child in its playing,
Let’s make us a sky and a sea,
Let’s change the things 'round us by saying
They're things that we wish them to be;
And if there is sadness or sorrow,
Let's dream till we charm it away,
Let's learn from the children, and borrow
A saying from childhood: “Let's play!”
Let’s play that the world’s full of beauty,
Let’s play there are roses in bloom,
Let’s play there is pleasure in duty,
And light where we thought there was gloom.

151
Let's play that this heart with its sorrow
Is bidden be joyous and glad,
Let's play that we'll find on tomorrow
The joys that we never have had.
Let's play that regret with its ruing
Is banished forever and aye,
Let's play there's delight but in doing,
Let's play there are flowers by the way.
However the pathway seem dreary,
Wherever the footsteps may lead,
Let's play there's a song for the weary
If only the heart will give heed.
Let's play we have done with repining,
Let's play that our longings are still,
Let's play that the sunlight is shining,
To gold the green slope of the hill.
Let's play there are birds blithely flinging
Their songs of delight to the air,
Let's play that the world's full of singing,
Let's play there is love -- everywhere.
Robert knelt and prayed before he went to sleep, always asking for Marie and her protection. He said:
"Lord, I ask nothing for myself, but beseech the greatest blessings on Marie and only ask for her happiness.
If it be for the best that her happiness be away from
me, then I desire to suffer rather than for her to be unhappy. I pray that she may realize my great love and
faith in her, my devotion to her and willingness to make
any sacrifice for her that might seem right, no matter
what my judgment may be."
Robert slept better that night because he was looking

152
forward to Tuesday, the 7th day of the month. He had
learned that the "7th" was a sacred day, and had often
talked to Marie about the number 7, and the number
of times it is spoken of in the Bible. How God had
blessed the 7th day and made it the Sabbath; how many
things had come to pass on the 7th day of the 7th
month, or the 7th year referred to in the Bible. In
some way he felt that on this day news would come from
Marie and he hoped that it would be good.
Robert awoke on Tuesday morning feeling much better, had his breakfast early, bought the newspaper and
read all about the receptions being planned for Colonel
Lindbergh and again the wish stole into his heart and
the hope was revived that in some way Marie might be
with him when Lindbergh arrived in New York. Later
in the day he received telegrams at his hotel from his
broker, advising of the purchase of October and December cotton and also the purchase of July wheat.
Robert decided to console himself by reading the
Bible. He read Job, and realized that he, too, would
have patience to wait until his time should come. Nothing could shake his faith in Marie or shake his faith
in the wisdom of Almighty God whom, Robert fully
believed, would answer his prayer. He hoped that before the day was over, some news of Marie would surely
come.
As he was reading the Bible the bellboy brought him
a letter stamped Texarkana, and, of course, Robert
hoped it contained some news of Marie. He opened
it hastily and read:

153
Texarkana, Texas.
June 6, 1927.
Mr. Robert Gordon,
Planters Hotel,
St. Louis, Mo.
DEAR ROBERT:
We are deeply grieved over Marie's disappearance but are
hopeful that no harm has come to her. From what Mr. Kennelworth tells us of the letter she wrote you, we believe she is
returning to school or home, and we are waiting news of her
with hope.
While Marie is quite young and we thought too young to
marry, and you too, are very young and could well afford to
wait a few years, we now realize that if a delay would interfere with your happiness and Marie's, we would gladly consent to an immediate marriage. We regret that we have misjudged you, Robert, and are proud to know more about you
from those who have known you intimately. Parents often
make mistakes in opposing their children and frequently the
interference of parents in the marriage of their children separate two that God has joined together. Man can only put
asunder the physical bodies, but what God doeth is forever.
We are very happy to know of your loyalty to Marie, your
faith in God and your great ambitions to succeed, according
to the rules laid down in the Bible. Shall be very happy to
notify you promptly of any news from Marie and will kindly
ask you to do the same for us. Believe us
Sincerely your friends,
WILLIAM and MARY STANTON.
When Robert received and read this letter he was
deeply touched and felt that a reward must always
come to those whose intentions are honest and honorable, so he sat down and answered the letter.

154
St. Louis, Missouri,
June 7, 1927.
Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Stanton,
Texarkana,
Texas.
DEAR FRIENDS:
I feel like addressing you as friends because sorrow often
makes us all friends, and am enclosing a poem -- "Trouble
Brings Friends," which I think is very appropriate. Materlinck said, "Men help each other by their joy, not by sorrow," but it is my belief that we are often led to extend help
in time of sorrow which we would never think of doing in
time of joy or happiness. I quote from John 16: 22 -- "And
ye now therefore have sorrow; but I will see you again, and
your hearts shall rejoice, and your joy no man taketh from
you." I hope and pray that the day is not far distant when
our hearts will rejoice together with the return of Marie.
Marie means everything to me and I honor and respect you
as her parents. I believe that you acted as you thought best
for Marie's future, and can find no fault with your good and
honest intentions, regardless of the suffering it has caused me
or the sorrow and disappointment it may have brought to
Marie. I wish to do only that which is honorable and best
for all concerned, and if Marie returns I will agree to submit
to your decision and wait until she has finished her course
in college before we are married. I wish to take my part of
the responsibility for Marie's elopement because I urged her
into action. I wanted to go to you and talk the matter over
but she felt sure that you would never consent to our marriage and said the only thing to do was to elope.
Marie felt all along when I was a struggling boy without
money, that you would never consent to her marrying below
her station in life and this, as much as anything else, made
me ambitious to achieve success and prove to you that even tho
I was born of poor parents and started without anything in
life, I could make a great success and accumulate money. To

155
me money means nothing and I would gladly give every dollar I have ever made just to spend one hour with Marie, and I
am sure that this is no boyish love affair or trick of the
imagination. While it is my first love, it will endure forever.
Time will prove that Marie means everything to me.
I thank you for your kindness and consideration and hope
and pray that we may soon have good news in regard to
Marie.
Sincerely yours,
ROBERT GORDON.
Poem enclosed with Robert's letter:
It's seldom trouble comes alone,
I've noticed this: when things go wrong
An' trouble comes a-visitin'
It always brings a friend along;
Sometimes it's one you've known before,
And then perhaps it's some one new
Who stretches out a helping hand,
An' stops to see what he can do.
If never trials come to us,
If grief an' sorrow passed us by,
If every day the sun came out,
An' clouds were never in the sky,
We'd still have neighbors, I suppose,
Each one pursuin' selfish ends,
But only neighbors they would be,
We'd never know them as our friends.
Out of the troubles I have had
Have come my richest friendships here,
Kind hands have helped to bear my care,
Kind words have fallen on my ear,
An' so I say when trouble comes
I know before the storm shall end
That I shall find my bit of care
Has also brought to me a friend.

156
CHAPTER XIII

THAT afternoon, after three o'clock, when the after-
noon newspapers were out, he bought a paper and 
found that cotton and wheat had advanced many points
and that he now had a nice profit on the purchases
made that morning. Indeed, the gods of good fortune
and finance were smiling on Robert, but the Goddess
of Love was frowning and he must have patience. As
the sun was slowly setting and the day was waning, he
watched in sadness because no news had come from
Marie. He firmly resolved that he would carry out his
intention and place the personal notice in the papers
the following day for news of Marie, if something did
not come that evening.
Robert called Mr. Kennelworth on the 'phone in
Texarkana and again met with disappointment. Not
a word had been heard from Marie and her parents
were now growing more anxious and feared that there
had been some accident or foul play in some way. They
were making a search in every direction; City and
County officials had been notified and all the schools
thruout the country were on the lookout for Marie and
making every effort to obtain some information about
her. Robert told Mr. Kennelworth about his plan to
insert the personal notice and Mr. Kennelworth agreed
with him. He thought it would be a good idea and
he believed that if she were secretly hiding somewhere,

157
she would surely see the papers because she herself
would be anxious to know what happened to Robert and
what he was doing.
Robert arose early on Wednesday morning, June 8th,
hastened to the newspaper offices and placed the personal notices to appear the following day. When he
returned to his hotel, for the first time since Sunday
he thought of his birthday, June 9th, when he would
be 21 years of age. When he thought of this a great
hope came into his mind. He decided that Marie, for
some unknown reason, was hiding until his birthday
and intended that they should be married on that day
and she was going to be his birthday present. Robert's
imagination went wild. He was elated over the hope.
It seemed like a sudden inspiration to him. It would
be just like Marie to wait until his birthday to give him
the surprise of his life, and think this delay would only
try his faith and patience and she would know just how
much she meant to him, but did not think it too long
to keep him waiting if he really loved her as he said
he did; that he would have patience and wait.
Robert was sure that his advertisements in the papers
the following day were going to bring results and that
probably Marie, just as soon as she saw it, would come
to him. So he really began to plan and hope and get
ready for a marriage to take place on his birthday.
He was so happy over this sudden thought, so elated
that he 'phoned Mr. Kennelworth again that night and
told him all about it. Mr. Kennelworth, half-hearted
but hopeful, agreed with Robert that there might be
something in it, that Marie might have had some plan

158
of this kind in mind, and sincerely hoped that Robert
was right and that this birthday would be the happiest
of his life.
After Robert talked with Mr. Kennelworth, he immediately called Walter Kennelworth on the 'phone in
New York, told him all that had happened, about his
placing the personal notices in the papers, about his
hopes and theories that Marie would show up on his
birthday. Walter said that it would be just like her to
do a trick of that kind and that this might be just what
it all meant. He thought that Robert had struck on the
right idea and was hopeful, too, that the marriage would
take place on Robert's birthday. He was to call Robert
on the 'phone the next day or Robert should call him
just as soon as he got any news. Walter wanted to
send congratulations for his birthday and his wedding
day. The fact that Walter was so cheerful and shared
Robert's views and hopes in the matter, made Robert
much happier.
After Robert had talked with Walter, the bellboy
came and brought a special-delivery letter and a telegram. Robert opened the telegram hurriedly, hoping
that it was something from Marie, but found it was a
telegram from his mother in which she congratulated
him on his birthday the following day, and encouraged
him to hope for the best and not give way to despair
in case Marie did not show up. The special-delivery
letter was also from Robert's mother, and read:
MY DEAR SON,
Your good friend, Mr. Kennelworth, has been out to see
me and told all that has happened. My son, I counsel you to

159
have patience and faith. Love endures much and is not discouraged. I believe everything happens for the best, my boy,
and it may be that Marie thought that you were both too
young to marry. If this was her view, I would say it would
hurt neither of you to wait a few years longer.
While I cannot understand the mysterious way in which
Marie disappeared, at the same time I hope, pray and believe
that she is alive and will come into your life again when you
most need her and are better prepared for her than you are
now. I know that it will be hard for you to see and realize
that it might be for the best for her to go out of your life
at this time, but even Marie may be wiser than we know. She
may want to test your love and test her love for you. If this
is the case, it will all turn out for the best for both of you.
If your love is strong enough to endure it and wait a few
months or a few years, no harm can come later. If Marie can
bear to be separated from you and remain faithful and loyal
to you for a few months or a few years, then she will mean
more to you when she comes back to you again.
I pray for you each night and pray that everything may
come out all right. I still have great faith and confidence in
you, my boy. Want you to stick to your faith and your
religion. Read the Holy Bible and follow it as you have in
the past and everything that the good God can do will come
to you in due time. Write me of your plans and what you
intend to do. Send me a telegram as soon as you have any
news, one way or the other. I anxiously await news of Marie
and wish that I could be with you to comfort you because I
know you need me when you haven't Marie.
Devotedly,

Your MOTHER.

Robert was happy to get the letter from his mother
because she always encouraged him and he knew that
no matter what happened, her faith in him would always remain the same and her love would endure for-

160
ever. He retired that night after having a light supper,
very happy, looking forward to his birthday with great
hopes and expectations. His 21st birthday meant a
great deal to him, meant more than any other birthday
because he hoped that it would bring Marie. He knew
that he had stood the test of her absence and that he
had unwavering faith, that the had never doubted her
motive, no matter even if he could not understand it,
and that he would not censure her actions. When Marie
returned and was once sure that she knew all this, he
would mean more to her than he had ever before and
she would only love him the more. After all, perhaps
this little disappointment would mean something good
in the future.
That night he read over all the poems that Marie
had ever written him or sent him, and read over the
poems that he had written her, because he had kept a
copy of them. He read the poem where he wrote "If
your aim is high and honest, in victory it will tell;
Before the pearl is gotten, there must be a broken shell!"
Again Robert realized that the shell had been broken
worse this time than ever before, or at least it seemed
that way to him. Yet at the same time it was not a
break because Marie had left him with love, and their
last good-night kiss on the train had been one of supreme
faith and trusting love which had been built up over a
period of years in which there had been many obstacles
to overcome, hard struggles and disappointments. Robert prayed his usual night prayer for the protection
of Marie and went to sleep, to dream of his birthday.

161
ROBERT GORDON'S 21ST BIRTHDAY
Robert arose early on June 9th. Hurried down to
the desk to ascertain if any telegrams had come over
night or any 'phone calls, but found no telegrams and
no messages. It was yet too early for the morning mail.
Robert secured the morning papers and saw his personal
notices which he had instructed the papers to continue
to run. He had added the name of his hotel and telephone number so that Marie could reach him promptly.
Somehow he had a feeling that just about 11 or 12
o'clock that day Marie would call at the hotel or he
would have some good news from her.
After having his breakfast, he waited for the first
mail, but there were no letters for him and up to this
time no telegrams had been received. He decided to go
down to a brokerage office and see how the market
opened. Cotton and wheat had advanced the day before
and cotton opened higher and was strong this morning,
and wheat was also holding up well. Robert found that
Major Motors was selling around 203 and he knew that
his broker must have sold 500 shares short for him at
this price. He figured that Major Motors would not
advance above 205 1/2 before it started on a big decline.
So he said to himself, "This is going to be a real happy
birthday. I am making money fast now in wheat and
cotton and will soon be making money in stocks." Right
Aeroplane was also strong and his profits were piling
up on this. He figured up his profits on Cotton, Wheat
and Stocks and on this birthday he was worth $30,000.

162
The money meant nothing to him. He would gladly
give every cent of it to have Marie as a birthday present.
His hopes remained high and somehow he felt that he
would have Marie as well as the financial success. Just
as he was figuring up his profits and thinking about it
an old saying came to him: "Lucky at cards, unlucky
in love." He wondered if this could be, that he would
be lucky in making money in speculation and at the
same time unlucky in his love affairs; but hoped and
prayed that this was the last disappointment in his
love affairs and that this birthday was to be the turning point and that some news would come from Marie.
He decided to forget about the market as everything
was moving along his way and returned to the hotel
to wait for news of Marie. He still had a hope or an
imagination that around 11 or 12 o'clock Marie would
either come to the hotel or some news from her would
be received. Upon returning to the hotel he found no
mail and no telegrams or telephone messages awaiting
him. When 11 o'clock came Robert's mind reverted
back to Sunday when he was watching the clock in the
Union Station, hoping and waiting for Marie to appear.
Robert became a little restless and more than anxious
as the minutes went by. The clock struck twelve on
his birthday and no Marie and no news from her. A
few minutes after 12 his bell rang and a messenger boy
appeared with a telegram. "Ah," Robert thought, "this
is from Marie or some news from her." But it was a
telegram of congratulations from his old pal, Walter,
who asked that he convey the first news which he received in regard to Marie and stated that he hoped be-

163
fore the day was over he could congratulate Robert on
his marriage to Marie. A little later in the day Robert
received a long telegram from Mr. Kennelworth, congratulating him on his birthday and offering words of
encouragement, also telling Robert that he expected to
leave Texarkana on Friday night, June 10th, and
arrive in St. Louis some time in the morning and that
Robert should be ready to start with him to New York,
as he wanted to be there when Lindbergh arrived.
Robert received another telegram from his mother congratulating him on his birthday and wishing him every
success and happiness.
These messages were very encouraging but it was now
2 o'clock and Robert began to be keenly disappointed -- he
had raised his hopes so high that Marie would appear
or some news would come. He paced the floor in anxiety, his heart beating rapidly and was forced to admit
to himself that he had been over hopeful. He started
to send a telegram to Mr. Kennelworth asking him to
wire or 'phone just as soon as possible if any news
had been received of Marie and asked him to call up
Marie's parents and find out if they had heard anything.
Minutes now began to drag slowly, as they had on Sunday when Robert had watched the clock and saw his
hopes slowly waning. They were now waning again and
Robert grew heartsick, but cheered himself with the
thought that the day was not over yet. There was
plenty of time for Marie to show up.
Robert decided to read awhile to quiet his anxiety.
He picked up the book of "Poems That Have Helped
Me," and read the "Isle of Long Ago."

164
Oh, a wonderful stream is the River Time,
As it flows thru the realm of years,
With a faultless rhythm and a musical rhyme,
And a broader sweep and a surge sublime,
As it blends with the ocean of years.
How the winters are drifting, like flakes of snow,
And the summers like buds between;
And the years in the sheaf -- so they come and they go
On the river's breast, with its ebb and flow,
As they glide in the shadow and sheen.
There's a magical Isle up the River Time,
Where the softest of airs are playing,
There's a cloudless sky and a tropical clime,
And a voice as sweet as a vesper chime,
And the Junes with the roses are staying.
And the name of this Isle is the Long Ago,
And we bury our treasures there;
There are brows of beauty and bosoms of snow -There are heaps of dust, but we love them so!
There are trinkets and tresses of hair.
There are fragments of songs that nobody sings,
And a part of an infant's prayer,
There's a harp unswept and a lute without strings,
There are broken vows and pieces of rings,
And the garments she used to wear.
There are bands that are waved when the fairy shore
By the mirage is lifted in air;
And we sometimes hear through the turbulent roar
Sweet voices we heard in the days gone before,
When the wind down the river is fair.
Oh, remembered for aye be the blessed Isle
All the day of our life till night,
And when evening comes with its beautiful smile,
And our eyes are closing in slumber awhile,
May that "Greenwood" of soul be in sight.

165
It made him realize that on the "river of time" there
are many trials, tribulations and disappointments.
While he was young in years he had experienced many
of them, and it seemed to him that the last five days
had been five years. When he read the lines of the
poem: "Sweet voices we heard in the days gone before,
when the wind down the river is fair" and "Our eyes are
closing in slumber awhile, he thought of Marie, her
beautiful eyes and sweet voice; all the happy things she
had ever said; the things that she had written, and like
a voice coming across the stillness of the night, he
seemed to hear Marie calling as she used to call: "Robert, dear," "Robert dear." He jumped from his chair,
startled, because for a moment he thought it was her
voice, for he had been hoping and expecting each moment
to hear her voice, but alas it was only a ghost of imagination and no Marie was there and no news of her.
Robert turned another page and read: "Crossing the
Bar," by Tennyson:
Sunset and evening star,
And one clear call for me,
And may there be no moaning of the bar,
When I put out to sea.
But such a tide as moving seems asleep,
Too full for sound and foam,
When that which drew from out the boundless deep,
Turns again home.
Twilight and evening bell,
And after that the dark;
And may there be no sadness of farewell,
When I embark.

166
For tho' from out our bourne of time and place,
The flood may bear me far,
I hope to see my Pilot face to face
When I have crossed the bar.
He read the last verse several times.
Robert thought of Marie, his pilot, his star, his hope.
When he had driven his ship across the uncertain sea
of finance it would be Marie's beautiful face that
would keep the lovelight burning upon the altar of his
heart, ever to guide her captain safely home. He had
looked to her to pilot him into the path of peace, lead
him to the fields of contentment and, at last, to the
height of eternal peace. He had looked forward to
this day, his birthday, when she would return to him
and he might claim her for his own. Thought of
Marie's words, that hope and anticipation are greater
than realization, but felt that nothing in the world could
give him greater pleasure than the realization of this
moment if he could hold Marie in his arms, kiss her
sweet lips and hear the sweet words of love she had
spoken to him in the past. Robert's heart for a moment
sank within him. It was too much for him. He sobbed
and cried like a baby but then he thought of his faith,
of God and his power supreme.
Again as he was wondering what to do, he got the
crumpled note that Marie wrote and put in his pocket
on Sunday and read it again: "According to your faith,
be I unto you. Love will always hope, understand and
wait. Time proves all things. You will get everything
you want. I will come to you when I mean the most
and your need for love is the greatest." Only a few

167
short lines, but so much said in them and so much left
unsaid, Robert thought. Yet they contained an assurance, they left no doubt about a hope for the future and
on that hope and with that faith Robert would cling to
the future. Time would prove his love. Marie stated
plainly that he would get everything he wanted and he
knew that the greatest thing in the world he wanted was
Marie. So at the close of another day of disappointment he felt that there was room for hope and that the
future was lined with hopes. He resolved never to
waver. Then read "A Psalm of Life" by Longfellow:
Tell me not in mournful numbers
Life is but an empty dream,
For the soul is dead that slumbers,
And things are not what they seem.
Life is real! Life is earnest!
And the grave is not its goal;
Dust thou art, to dust returnest,
Was not spoken of the soul.
Not enjoyment, and not sorrow,
Is our destined end or way;
But to act, that each tomorrow
Find us farther than today.
Art is long and Time is fleeting,
And our hearts, though stout and brave,
Still, like muffled drums, are beating
Funeral marches to the grave.
In the world's broad field of battle,
In the bivouac of Life,
Be not like dumb, driven cattle!
Be a hero in the strife!

168
Trust no future, howe'er pleasant!
Let the dead Past bury its dead!
Act -- act in the living present!
Heart within and God o'erhead.
Lives of great men all remind us
We can make our lives sublime,
And, departing, leave behind us
Footprints on the sands of time.
Footprints, that perhaps another,
Sailing o'er life's solemn main,
A forlorn and shipwrecked brother,
Seeing, shall take heart again.
Let us, then, be up and doing,
With a heart for any fate;
Still achieving, still pursuing,
Learn to labor and to wait.
When he got to the verse
Trust no future, howe'er pleasant!
Let the dead Past bury its dead!
Act -- act in the living present!
Heart within and God o'erhead.
Robert now fully realized that he must trust to the
future if he intended to live and continue to make a
success and complete his discoveries and inventions. He
read the last verse slowly and carefully:
Let us, then, be up and doing,
With a heart for any fate;
Still achieving, still pursuing,
Learn to labor and to wait.
This sounded much better to Robert. He was willing
to learn to labor and wait and felt that if he waited
there would be a reward, because Marie had promised

169
him and he knew that Marie would keep her promise,
and nothing could ever take from him that hope, that
knowledge that Marie would keep her promise.
Then he read another little poem: "The Spring of
Love."
A little sun, a little rain,
A soft wind blowing from the West,
And woods and fields are sweet again
And warmth within the mountain's breast
A little love, a little trust,
A soft impulse, a sudden dream,
And life as dry as desert dust,
Is fresher than a mountain stream.
He knew that he had great love and great trust, and
that that love, and the hope of Marie, would give him
ambition and courage to continue on. It was now getting late and no news had come of Marie. Robert realized his birthday was passing and his hopes for the
present were blasted.
He read the poem, "Lead Kindly Light":
Lead, kindly Light, amid the encircling gloom,
Lead thou me on!
The night is dark and I am far from home,
Lead thou me on!
Keep thou my feet; I do not ask to see
The distant scene -- one step enough for me
I was not ever thus, nor prayed that thou
Shouldst lead me on;
I loved to see and choose my path, but now
Lead thou me on!
I loved the garish day, and, spite of fears,
Pride ruled my will: remember not past years.

170
So long thy power hath blessed me, sure it still
Will lead me on;
O'er moor and fen, o'er crag and torrent till
The night is gone;
And with the morn those angel faces smile
Which I have loved long since, and lost awhile.
The last few lines of the final verse impressed him
strongly. Robert felt that Marie was only lost for
awhile and that on the coming morning he would meet
the future with a smile, face it with hope, courage and
determination and make some new plans; figure some
other new way by which he might locate Marie or obtain
some news of her whereabouts. Realizing more than
ever that hope deferred maketh the heart grow sick,
Robert read everything in the Bible that he could find
on love. At last he read the song of Solomon.
Robert knew that he would never leave his first love
and go back on her, that that was the one love of his
life and that it would remain so long as there was life
in his body. With this resolve in his heart he decided
to face the future with hope.

171
CHAPTER XIV

ROBERT bought evening newspapers and looked over
the Financial Page; noted that cotton, wheat 
and corn had advanced that day. His birthday had
indeed been a success, financially, and his 21st birthday found him on top of the world, but this was
not what counted with Robert. The great disappointment was that his hopes for Marie on that day were
blasted, but he had not given up. As he looked over the
newspapers he saw an advertisement headed, "Madam
Cleo," Clairvoyant. The advertisement stated that
Madam Cleo could re-unite the separated and bring back
lost lovers. While Robert had never been to a clairvoyant and his only faith was in astrology, and science laid
down in the Bible, in desperation he decided to grasp
at any straw. Early on the morning of June 10th he
called to see Madam Cleo. She told him that he had
gone thru a great sorrow but that his sweetheart would
return to him in a few days, he should be of good
cheer because Marie loved him only; that it had been
a case of nervous indecision which had caused Marie to
disappear, and that she would return just as suddenly
as she had disappeared.
Robert felt more hopeful and returned to his hotel,
hoping to get some news of Marie. There were no
letters or telegrams. He called up the broker's office

172
to find out how cotton and wheat were that morning
and found that they were strong and higher. His calculations showed that wheat and cotton should be top
for a reaction on June 10th so he wired his broker in
New York to sell out his wheat and cotton. Corn was
down that morning, so he telegraphed the broker to
buy 20,000 bushels of September corn. After sending
this telegram, he glanced over the morning paper and
saw an advertisement headed, “Professor O. B. Joyful,”
Astrologer. Robert eagerly read the advertisement because the name attracted him. And he was looking for
something to make him joyful. Professor Joyful’s
advertisement stated that “with the science of Astrology,
he could tell when success would start, when trouble
would end and reveal when marriage would take place.”
Robert was a great believer in Astrology because he had
found this great science referred to so many times in
the Holy Bible. Robert remembered reading in the
Psalms 111: 2:
The works of the Lord are great, sought out of all them
that have pleasure therein.
He had made notes as he read the Bible at different
times where it referred to Astrology or the signs in the
heavens and was thoroughly convinced that the influence of the heavenly bodies govern our lives.
Genesis 1: 7, 16 and 18:
And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which
were under the firmament from the waters which were above
the firmament: and it was so.
And God made two great lights; and the greater light to

173
rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night: he made
the stars also.
And to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide
the light from the darkness: and God saw that it was good.
Genesis 7: 2:
Of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens, the
male and his female; and of beasts that are not clean by two,
the male and his female.
Joshua 10: 12 and 14:
Then spake Joshua to the Lord in the day when the Lord
delivered up the Amorites before the children of Israel, and
he said in the sight of Israel, Sun, stand thou still upon
Gibeon; and thou, Moon, in the valley of Ajalon.
And there was no day like that before it, or after it, that
the Lord hearkened unto the voice of a man: for the Lord
fought for Israel.
Samuel 22: 8:
That all of you have conspired against me, and there is
none that sheweth me that my son hath made a league with
the sons of Jesse, and there is none of you that is sorry for
me, or sheweth unto me that my son hath stirred up my
servant against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?
Job 22: 14:
Thick clouds are a covering to him, that he seeth not; and
he walketh in the circuit of heaven,
Job 26: 10 and 11:
He hath compassed the waters with bounds, until the day
and night come to an end.
The pillars of heaven tremble, and are astonished at his
reproof.

174
Job 37: 18:
Hast thou with him spread out the sky, which is strong,
and as a molten looking glass?
Psalms 19: 1, 4 and 6:
The heavens declare the glory of God: and the firmament
sheweth his handywork.
Their line is gone out thru all the earth, and their words
to the end of the world. In them hath he set a tabernacle
for the sun;
His going forth is from the end of the heaven, and his
circuit unto the ends of it: and there is nothing hid from
the heat thereof.
Psalms 136: 7 and 9:
To him that made great lights: for his mercy endureth
for ever:
The moon and the stars to rule by night: for his mercy
endureth for ever.
Proverbs 8: 27 and 28:
When he prepared the heavens, I was there: when he sat a
compass upon the face of the depth;
When he established the clouds above; when he strengthened the fountains of the deep;
Ecclesiastes 1: 3 and 5:
What profit hath a man of all his labour which he taketh
under the sun?
The sun also ariseth, and the sun goeth down, and hasteth
to his place where arose.
Isaiah 40: 22:
It is he that sitteth upon the circle of the earth, and the
inhabitants thereof are as grasshoppers; that stretcheth out

175
the heavens as a curtain, and spreadeth them out as a tent
to dwell in;
Isaiah 43: 5:
Fear not; for I am with thee: I will bring thy seed from
the east, and gather thee from the west;
Ezekiel 1: 22:
And the likeness of the firmament upon the heads of the
living creature was as the colour of the terrible crystal,
stretched forth over their heads above.
Amos 9: 6:
It is he that buildeth his stories in the heaven, and hath
founded his troop in the earth; he that calleth for the waters
of the sea, and poureth them out upon the face of the earth;
the Lord is his name.
Habakkuk 3: 2:
O Lord, I have beard thy speech, and was afraid; O Lord,
revive thy work in the midst of the years, in the midst of
the years make known; in wrath remember mercy.
St. Matthew 24: 29 and 30:
Immediately after the tribulation of those days shall the
sun be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, and
the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens
shall be shaken.
And then shall appear the sign of the Son of man, in heaven:
and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall
see the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven, with
power and great glory.
Robert knew that the Bible was replete with references that the heavens ruled. He had read where it said:

176
“Discern the end from the beginning”; where Jesus
said: “I will judge you in the place of your nativity.”
He hastened to the office of Professor O. B. Joyful
in the hope that the great science of Astrology would
throw some light upon the disappearance of Marie. The
secretary told him that the Professor was very busy
and as Robert had no appointment, he would have to
wait awhile. Glancing around the walls of the office
he saw some beautiful cards of poems hanging on the
walls. One was entitled, “The power of Love.” This
attracted Robert’s attention:
Sunbeams after showers are brightest,
Seeking sorrow is a sin;
Woman’s heart is ever lightest
When love, the jewel, dwells within.
Robert thought that this was a wonderful poem and
he knew that it applied to man as well as woman, because his heart was ever light when love dwelled within;
knew that it was Marie’s beautiful eyes and the hope
of seeing them again, which was guiding him now across
the troubled sea of time. He anxiously awaited the
time when he could tell his troubles to Professor Joyful,
hoping that they would soon be turned into joy. He
read another poem on the wall:
Love is a gift to he used every day,
Not to be smothered and hidden away,
Love is not a thing to be stored in the chest
Where you gather your keepsakes,
And treasure your best.
Love is a gift you should use every day.
-- NORAH PERKINS.

177
Robert knew that he was using love every day and it
seemed that the Professor had prepared his office to receive those in love. Another poem read:
We starve each other for love’s caress;
We take, but we do not give;
We know it is easy some soul to bless,
But we dole out affection, giving less and less,
Until the world becomes bitter and hard.
Robert felt that he had not been stingy with his love for
Marie and that he had showered his affection upon her.
The Bible said that love begetteth love and he knew if he
received as he gave, his reward would be the return of
Marie and her love.
By this time, the secretary announced that Professor
Joyful was ready to receive him. He entered the Professor’s office, where he met a middle-aged man whose
kindly face indicated that he had sympathy for those in
trouble. Robert stated briefly his troubles. Upon being
asked his date of birth, said he was born June 9th, 1906.
The Professor made out his horoscope hurriedly and
told him that Venus and Mars were in conjunction by
transit in the sign Leo, which ruled the heart; that
Venus applied to a trine of Uranus, and that while he
could give him hopeful news and could assure him from
his horoscope that he would one day find Marie, he
could not offer false hopes and state that he would find
her within a few days. Said there was a possibility of
his finding her within two years, but it would probably
be three or four years before she would ever come into
his life again. In view of the fact that Venus was

178
separating from a conjunction of Mars on the day he
had called to inquire about Marie, the indications were
that his sweetheart, Marie, would be separated farther
from him rather than come closer to him at this time.
He assured Robert that Marie was alive, that no harm
had come to her, and that none would, that she was
carrying out her own secret plans; was faithful to
Robert, and had no other lover. He told Robert that
he was a born genius and in the next few years would
make a great success in speculation and in the field of
aviation. While Robert was disappointed, he felt that
this scientific man was telling the truth and decided
to take his advice, try to be patient, and to face the
future with hope. The Professor told Robert that his
horoscope indicated that he would eventually realize
all his hopes and ambitions. Venus, in the sign Cancer, promised happiness in love affairs eventually, but
Neptune therein indicated a skeleton in the family closet
and some secret mysterious happenings in connection
with the home and domestic relations. Robert told him
of his plans to go to New York and the Professor stated
that New York City was ruled by the sign Cancer, and
in view of the fact that the planet Venus, the Goddess
of Love, was located in that sign, he would eventually
meet or find Marie in New York City. This cheered
Robert greatly because he knew he wanted to go to
New York to make money in speculation and complete
his inventions. Professor Joyful told Robert that Venus
progressed in the sign Leo, which rules the heart, would
cause some great sorrows and heartaches when there were
afflictions to it. He had started the trip with the

179
Moon in the sign Leo, ruling the heart, but it had separated from good aspects and was applying to evil ones.
His ruling planet applied to an evil aspect of Uranus,
indicating great worries following the starting of this
journey. Said that he had planned his marriage for an
unfortunate day and that it was better that it did not
take place at that time. Assured Robert that there was
no doubt about the realizations of his hopes in the future, but that the delay was inevitable. He told him
that the clairvoyant who promised that he would find
Marie in a few days, was only encouraging his hopes,
and that science, which could be depended upon, did
not confirm these hopes, or at least the immediate
realization of them. There was a possibility of his
finding Marie in a foreign state or country or
that some news would come to him of her from a
great distance. He asked Robert for Marie’s date of
birth. Robert told him that he knew she was born
on October 6th, but that he was not sure of the
year, but he thought it was in 1908. The Professor
told him that if this date was correct, it would confirm
all that he had told him and indicated a long delay before he would find her.
Robert returned to his hotel more hopeful and with
the firm decision to face the future and carry out his
plans, living faithful to Marie. On his arrival at the
hotel, he received a telegram from Mr. Kennelworth,
reading:
LEAVING ON THE SUNSHINE SPECIAL TONIGHT ARRIVE ST. LOUIS
SATURDAY MORNING BE READY TO LEAVE IMMEDIATELY WITH ME
FOR NEW YORK.

180
Robert was more cheerful after reading this message because since Marie’s disappearance he had not met a
man or woman he had ever known before. Mr. Kennelworth was a dear friend of his and it would be very
comforting to meet him and talk over his troubles. He
was also anxious to meet his old pal, Walter Kennelworth, so he decided to get ready to go on to New York.
The big reception for Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh was
planned and would take place in New York on Monday,
June 13th, and he wanted to be there, but every time
he thought of anything that would give him happiness
or pleasure, he thought of Marie and knew that without
her it would not mean as much to him. Still he hoped
Marie might appear or that some news of her might be
received before he left. He wanted to see Captain Lindbergh and his plane, “The Spirit of St. Louis,” for
Robert was dreaming of the day when he would complete
his own great plane according to Ezekiel’s plan. Robert
went to his room and spent the balance of the day
reading the Bible and working out future cycles on wars.
Figured that great opportunities would come for making
money in the Stock and Commodity markets, and that
he was going to make a great financial success and carry
out his plans.
On June 11th, Mr. Kennelworth arrived. Robert met
him at the Union Station in St. Louis. He had only
about an hour to wait before the train departed for New
York. No news had been received of Marie. Mr. Kennelworth told Robert that her parents were still hopeful
that she was alive, but they were at a loss to understand
why she had not communicated with anyone. He told

181
Robert to keep up his courage for he felt sure that all
would end well. On the train to New York they talked
of Robert’s plans. Mr. Kennelworth said he was anxious
for him and Walter to be together again and believed it
was for the best. Robert told him that he had been
making money in wheat and cotton and that Right
Aeroplane was moving his way; that he was Short of
Major Motors and expected to make a fortune selling it
all the way down. Mr. Kennelworth expressed his continued faith in Robert’s ability and told him that he was
going to follow him on the market. While he admired
him for his great love for Marie and his faith in her,
worry would not bring her back, he said, and he should
get down to business, study the Bible, work on his inventions and leave the matter of Marie’s return to the
Lord, trusting and believing in Him who knoweth and
doeth all things well. Told Robert that he was a “doer”
and not a dreamer; that he had demonstrated the greatest ability of any young man he had ever known. That
he had the pep and quoted an epigram, “The pessimist
says it can’t be done, the optimist says, let George do it:
meanwhile the peptomist has done it.” He said: “Robert, you and Lindbergh are peptomists. You do it while
the other fellow watches and waits, or says it can’t be
done.” He quoted a poem from Tennyson:
I cannot hide that some have striven
Achieving calm, to whom was given
The joy that mixes man with heaven.
Who rowing hard against the stream,
Saw distant gates of Eden gleam
And did not dream it was a dream.

182
“I am sure you are to make your dreams come true.
The Bible says: There is nothing better for a man than
that he should make his soul enjoy good in his labor.
Work is the only thing to drown your sorrows. If you
go to work, complete your inventions and continue to
study, the troubles will disapear. Time will fly lightly
by and before you know it, Marie will return to you.”
Then Robert repeated a few lines by Dora Greenwald:
“Joy is a working thing. It builds up while it enlarges the
whole nature. It is the wine to strengthen the heart, to brace
it to carry noble enterprise.”

Mr. Kennelworth said, “That is very fine, Robert, but
you must work for the joy that is yet to come and your
great love for Marie will strengthen your heart and
brace you to attain all your aims. Love is the great
power behind the universe and it is the greatest of all
powers. Emotions are the motive power behind every
great achievement, and without emotion nothing will
ever be accomplished. There are three great emotions
-- Love, Fear and Hate, which actuate every deed, good
or bad, and without them, man would accomplish nothing. The great emotion which is going to help you
accomplish all your plans and realize your greatest
hopes and ambitions, is Love. A man makes money and
saves it because he fears the future. Great nations go
to war and fight because they are urged by the emotion
of Hate. They are also fighting thru the emotion of
fear, but if love was the emotion behind all, there would
be no war, no sorrows -- no troubles and no jealousies.”
Robert then showed a poem on “Love” which he had
written to Marie and one, “The Garden of Love,” which

183
he had written at the time he and Marie had their first
break in 1926. Mr. Kennelworth read these poems and
was very much impressed with Robert’s ability as a
writer. He said, “Robert, this proves to me that Love
brings out the best in a man and that when he finds a
good woman his success is assured.”
Robert talked of how he had read the Bible where it
said that there eventually would be one God and one
united people and that Love would rule the world. How,
since a little boy, his Mother had talked against war
and prayed for the day when wars would cease and
man would follow the command given by Jesus Christ:
“Love thy neighbor as thyself.” He hoped and felt
sure that the day would come but that the Bible made it
plain as he understood it, that there would yet be a great
war fought in the air, when deadly chemicals would be
used and the greater portion of the people on earth
would be killed. Then would come peace, when God
would rule the world and Love would be the motive
behind every act. Then nations would no longer become jealous of each other and go to war. Robert said,
“I have made a great study of wars in the past and how
conditions changed; how at one time Spain was the
mistress of the seas and later Rome was the controlling
nation; then England ruled the waves and London was
the banking center of the world. Then came the great
war in 1914 which changed everything. England lost
control of the seas. She lost her power as the great banking nation of the world. The gold supply of the world
flowed rapidly to the United States and in the dark days
of 1917, when England and France, after being deserted

184
by Russia, were fighting with their backs to the wall,
the United States, the land of love and liberty, came to
the rescue, helped to defeat the Germans and saved
England and France. At that time they were seemingly very grateful, but after the war conditions
changed. The United States was no longer in debt to
foreign countries but was now the banking nation of
the world and the foreign countries owed large sums of
money to the United States. This country has continued to prosper since the war, the gold supply of the
world now rests here. Our former friends have become
jealous of the prosperity we enjoy and the power that
we now hold in financial affairs which once belonged to
England. Some of the foreign countries do not want to
pay their obligations and this jealousy can lead to nothing else but war, as it always has in the past. I hope
to be ready when that war comes with my great airplane, and other inventions to help defend my country
and later promote a lasting peace based on love and goodwill. The United States began as a land of liberty and
has always set an example for the balance of the world
and I hope to see the day when our country will take the
lead in establishing universal peace and the brotherhood
of man. Captain Lindberg’s flight confirms my studies
and forecasts of the future. Aviation will be developed
rapidly and nations will want to try these new discoveries and inventions to conquer other nations, and war
is inevitable. The Bible prophets foretold it, and my
studies of the cycle theory also indicate that we are in
a period where cycles will repeat which have caused war
in the past.”
On the afternoon of June 12th, Mr. Kennelworth and

185
Robert arrived in New York City and were met at
the train by Walter. Robert was very happy to meet his
dearest friend, and it was consoling to be with him.
After their arrival, they went to the Hotel Vanderbilt.
Mr. Kennelworth went out to see a friend and left
Robert and Walter to chat alone. Robert told Walter
of the terrible sufferings he had gone thru since Marie’s
disappearance and of his great disappointment. He
talked of the success he had made in the market and of
the future when he hoped to complete his great invention with the aid of Walter and his knowledge of chemicals and make discoveries which would end war for all
times. But immediately after talking of his future
plans his mind would revert back to Marie and he would
start talking about her and bemoaning the fact that without her he could not go on in the future. Walter told
him to forget about her -- that time would bring changes
and that he would find another girl who would take the
place of Marie. Robert was indignant and told Walter
that time would never change him; that he would remain faithful to Marie until death, no matter if he
never heard of her again. Walter said that Marie was
too young to know her own mind and was probably in
love with someone else, or thought she was, which accounted for her sudden change and disappearance from
the train. Robert then showed him the letter which he
found in his pocket the morning that Marie disappeared.
Walter read it.
June 5th, 1927.
3 A.M.
DEAREST ROBERT:
According to your faith, be I unto you. Love will always
have faith, understand and wait. Time proves all things.

186
You will get everything you want; I will come to you when
I mean the most and your need for love is the greatest.
Lovingly always,
MARIE.
Walter said: “This is certainly a mysterious letter. I
don’t understand it and I don’t suppose Marie did
either. There is nothing in this letter to explain whether
she was leaving you or not, or why or where she was
going or anything about it. Now, Robert, don’t you
understand real love could never act like that or write
like that? There is some secret behind all this and my
opinion is that there is another man in the case.” But
Robert refused to listen to any such reasoning. His
faith in Marie was unshaken. His love for her was
great enough to understand, to have patience and wait.
Marie could or would do no wrong, and no amount of
evidence would ever change him.
Mr. Kennelworth returned to the hotel and after
dinner told Robert that he wanted to have a confidential
chat with his son, Walter. Robert decided to go out for
a walk and see the city. When they were alone, Walter
told his father that he had had a long talk with Robert
and that his mind was on nothing but Marie. His
father said: “The only thing to do is to help Robert get
interested in his work so that he will forget about
Marie. That is the best thing for him at present. The
great love that he has for her will be the incentive to
spur him on to success and help him realize his ambitions. Love is the greatest thing in the world and without it men would not get very far. It brings out the
noble and better qualities in a man and should always be
encouraged.”

187
CHAPTER XV

ON the following day, Monday, June 13th, Mr. 
Kennelworth, Robert and Walter arose early to be
ready for Colonel Lindbergh’s triumphant march up
Broadway. Robert was very enthusiastic about it and
talked about what a great achievement it was and what
it meant to the world, especially to the United States.
Walter told him that they must get busy and start to
lay out the plans to build Robert’s great airplane.
When they started out on the street, Robert began to
talk of Marie and said that he hoped that he would
find her that day. Thru all the surging crowds, he
stared in the face of every woman, hoping that Marie,
if she was alive, might have decided to come to New
York for the Lindbergh reception. It was a great day
for Colonel Lindbergh, and a great day for Robert,
because it encouraged his hope for the day, and believed it would come to pass when airplanes would conquer the world and bring universal peace. He felt
that a state of perfection could never be reached until
the brotherhood of man, founded on love, was established.
Walter told his father and Robert about a great play
that he had been to see: “One for All.” He was anxious
for them to see it and had secured tickets for that night.
Robert was immediately interested. He was attracted

188
to Molly and saw in her great sacrifice for Eric an
example of Marie. As the play neared the end, and
Molly was in great sorrow, and her secret sacrifice had
become known to Eric, Robert could restrain his emotions no longer. He turned to Mr. Kennelworth and
said, “I wonder if he’ll be man enough to forgive her
and appreciate her, as the greatest woman in the world
for him. Will his mind be broad enough to realize that
she made the supreme sacrifice because of her unselfish
love. Now that he has succeeded and has the world at
his feet will he turn from her and condemn her as the
world usually does?“ Mr. Kennelworth said: “You
can see that Eric is now weighing the matter in his
mind and is hesitating. We can only wait and see.”
Robert said, “If Eric loves Molly as I love Marie he
will now love her more after this.” Robert watched
Eric with every muscle in his body tense, as Eric read
the receipt written by Chattox and also he watched
Molly and her expression as she leaned over the staircase
and read the receipt over Eric’s shoulder. He saw
Eric slowly fold the receipt around the little booties for
the baby and place them in his pocket and walk slowly
away. Robert was wondering what Eric was thinking
of and what his decision would be. Then came the
final climax -- Eric, after knowing all, took Molly in
his arms and gave her the kiss which Robert knew meant
foregiveness and understanding. He then realized that
love, just as Molly said in the beginning, was the greatest thing in the world, and meant more than all the
money in the world. Robert jumped to his feet and
shouted, “Hurrah for Eric,” and said, “that’s the kind

189
of love I have for Marie and no matter what may have
happened or what she should do in the future, my love
is the kind which will understand, forgive and forget.”
He told them how he was impressed with the story
in the Bible where the woman was brought before Jesus
accused and how the Jesus said, “Let him who is without sin, cast the first stone,” and when they had all
disappeared he said: “Woman, doth no man accuse
thee,” and she answered, “No, Lord.” Jesus said,
“Neither do I. Go your way and sin no more.” Robert said when the world once realized the great power
of Love, that jealousy, enmity, all accusations and the
desire for personal gain, would pass away. That when
Love alone dominated the hearts of men and women,
wars would be no more, and that men would see no evil
in their fellow-men as Eric saw no evil in Molly’s sacrifice but knew and understood that great love for him was
the motive that prompted her actions. Robert quoted
Daniel 2: 22:
“He revealeth the deep and secret things. He knoweth what
is in the darkness and the light dwelleth within him. A
kingdom which shall never be destroyed, consume all other
kingdoms and stand forever.”
He said that when the day came when men were ruled
by the law of love and understood each other, a kingdom
would be established that would never be destroyed, and
that it would consume all other kingdoms. Robert believed that the United States, the land of liberty, was
created never to be destroyed, and that it would eventually consume all other nations and rule by the law of
love and justice, that it was God’s will that it become

190
the most prosperous country and the banking nation of
the world. Believed that the nation referred to in
Psalms 147: 20 was the United States:
“He hath not dealt so with any nation and as for his judgments they have not known them. Praise ye the Lord.”
Walter was not so enthusiastic and sure about the
power of Love as Robert. You can never tell what a
woman will do, he said and referred to Proverbs 30: 18
and 19:
“There be three things which are too wonderful for me. Yea,
four which I know not, -- the way of an eagle in the air, the
way of a serpent upon a rock, the way of a ship in the midst
of a sea, and the way of a man with a maid.”
Walter said, “The last one is too much for me and I
would not attempt to discern the way of a maid without
a man. They go where you know not and return when
you least expect it. Some wise woman once said, ‘When
you know one man, you know all.’ A wiser man said,
‘You never know a woman, for all women are different.’”
Robert said, “It is interesting to go back over history
and read the opinions of the smartest men in regard to
woman. Confucius said, ‘Woman is a masterpiece.’
Michelet said, ‘Woman is a miracle of divine contradictions.’ Lamartine said, ‘There is a woman at the beginning of all great things.’ I am wholly in accord
with him. Go back to the bottom of every great achievement and back of it you will find the influence of a
good woman. It may be a mother, sister or sweetheart,
but the love of a woman is always the motive behind the
great achievements of men. Someone once said: ‘Not

191
for herself was woman first created, nor yet to be man’s
idol, but his mate.’ Pythagoras said: ‘There are in
woman’s eyes two sorts of tears, the one of grief; the
other of deceit.’ I think that is because there are two
kinds of men, one who appreciates love and honor and
gives sympathy; the other kind who is selfish, expects
something for nothing and must meet with deceit. I am
a great believer in sowing and reaping. We get out of
life just what we put into it. If we give love and faithfulness, the same returns to us. Maeterlinck was right
when he said: ‘A man’s sweetheart is just as pure as his
thoughts of her are pure.’ I remember reading a poem,
“What thou lovest, Man,
Become thou must,
God, if thou lovest God,
Dust if thou lovest dust.
Napoleon said, ‘All the women in the world would not
make me lose an hour,’ but history shows that Napoleon
did lose sleep over his love for Josephine. He wrote to
her -- 'I am sick of men because they keep me away from
my love.’ Shakespeare expressed it better than all the rest
when he said ‘Kindness in woman, not their beauteous
looks, shall win my love.’ A real womanly woman whose
heart is filled with love, cannot be other than kind because Kindness is a child of Love. Women may be mysterious and we may fail to understand them. That is
one of the reasons why we love them all the more.
Fontenelle said, ‘There are three things I have always
loved and never understood -- paintings, music and
women.’ He might have added that the greatest of the
three was, woman.”

192
Then Walter quoted from Southey, "'There are three
things a wise man will not trust, the wind, the sunshine of an April day and a woman’s plighted faith.'"
Robert replied -- "Nevertheless nearly every wise man
has loved and trusted some good woman and most of
them have not regretted it. Walter, you have never
really been in love and you don’t know what love is.
If you did, you would have faith and trust, regardless
of all conditions.” “I guess the subject of love and
women is too deep for me,” said Walter, and the sooner
you get down to business and your studies and get love
off your mind, the greater success you are going to make.”
Robert answered, “Without love this world would never
have existed. It was God’s love for the world that
saved it. My love for Marie will make me whatever I
am to be in the future. Without that love I know I
would be a miserable failure. The time will come when
you will go to sleep at night with your last thoughts of
beautiful rosy lips, of eyes that shine like Golconda’s
purest gems, of a voice that is sweeter than a nightingale, of luxurious hair and of a form that to you is
more beautiful than Venus, and when you awake in the
morning your first thoughts will be of her. You will see
her in the beautiful flowers, her face will be reflected
from the ripple of the pure waters; everything you
think about she will appear in connection with. Your
slumbers will be disturbed. When you get a fever like
this, you will then know and understand the power of
love. Then nothing else will matter, only one thing will
count in your life -- the woman you love. A great love
like this must come to every man. In the Springtime
of life it may be, or in those sunny solaces of the after-

193
noon when the waning day brings sadness and man looks
back and longs for the time when he might have loved,
when he was younger and lived longer. Love is the
elixir of life. It is a greater cure than any medicine.
It has built up kingdoms and destroyed nations. You
have ambitions now and a desire for gold, but after all,
Walter, what can it buy? All the gold in the world
cannot buy the tender touch of a little child’s fingers
or the lovelight in angel eyes like Marie’s. It gives
satisfaction that nothing else can.”
Walter said, “Robert, you always drift back to Marie
and her eyes. Those beautiful black eyes that you talk
about may be wonderful, but you remember the old
saying, ‘Can you be true to eyes of black or brown,
when blue has smiled on you.’ You will find that a
change will come sooner or later if Marie doesn’t show
up and you will be the better for it.”
But Robert was sure that no eyes could ever take the
place of Marie’s and Robert handed Walter the following poem to read:
HEAL THYSELF
If any brown-eyed girl has changed her mind
And left you sinking in the consommé,
Calmly smile and let her go, you’ll forget about your woe -(There’s a lot of consolation to be found in eyes of gray.)
If any brown-eyed girl has left your heart
In forty-seven pieces at your feet,
Then the proper thing to do is to gaze in eyes of blue -(And perhaps you’ll find the same are twice as sweet.)
If any brown-eyed girl has given you
Your “exit cue,” the “go-by” and “the air,”
And your heart in glad amaze’ll heed the lure of eyes of hazel -You can sing that song of Tanguay’s, "I Don’t Care.”

194
If any brown-eyed girl has -- well, she did;
Above, you’ll find some good philosophy;
It may do for you, I guess, but I really must confess
It has never been a bit of use to me!
BEN WARREN.
“The last verse expresses my sentiments to a T; no
other eyes will ever have any attraction for me except
Marie’s.”
A few days after New York’s reception to Colonel
Lindbergh, Robert decided to get down to business.
He visited his brokers in Wall Street, talked over the
market situation and found that they did not agree with
his ideas and views. Decided to open an office at 69
Wall Street, and Walter was to work with him when
he had time from his studies. They consulted about a
stenographer or office assistant. Walter had met Miss
Edna Quinton, a very talented girl, whom he thought
was the most competent he had ever known, so Robert
gave her a position in his office.
Walter was anxious to keep Robert cheerful so went
sight-seeing often and to see all the latest plays. Robert
was very much interested in the play, “The Student
Prince.” Was impressed when the old servant told the
young King the old saying, “A promise keep, right
well you sleep; a promise break, all night you wake.”
Robert knew that this was what caused the King to
return to his former sweetheart, but when he gave her
up and married the Princess, he was disgusted and
disappointed. Told Walter that he would never break
his promise for anyone; and knew that if he did, he
would never be able to sleep soundly again.

195
CHAPTER XVI
ROBERT GORDON'S GREAT CAMPAIGN IN COTTON

AFTER Robert had sold out his October cotton at
17.30 and his December cotton at 17.50 on
June 10th, he decided to watch the market very closely
for a few days because he thought it would go lower.
His forecast indicated last buying level around June
25th. He figured that after this time the market would
go higher until September 5th to 6th, when he figured
it would be final high.
On June 25th October cotton declined to 16.80 and
he bought 500 October at 16.83 and 500 December at
17.15. He figured that it would run up for about
thirty days so on July 25th he sold 500 October cotton
at 19c and sold 500 December at 19.20 and went short
of 500 December at 19.20. The decline followed as
he expected. On July 30th he sold 500 more December
cotton at 18.60 and on August 6th he bought 1000
December at 17.40 to cover his short contracts. He
figured that the Government report on August 8th
would be very bullish and that cotton would go up very
fast and continue until around September 5th to 6th,
or until the Government report in September. On
August 6th he bought 1000 December at 17.35. On
August 8th he bought 500 December at 17.30. The
Government was very bullish as he expected and cotton

196
advanced 200 points on August 8th. On August 9th
he sold out his 1500 December at 20.30 and sold 1000
December short at 20.30. A big decline followed and
on August 13th he bought 1000 December cotton at
19.10 and also bought 1000 December at 19.10 for long
account. He started in to pyramid on the way up. On
August 19th he bought 500 more December at 20.10;
on August 22nd he bought 500 December at 21.10; on
August 27th he bought 500 December at 22.30 and
on August 29th bought 300 December at 23.30. On
September 8th the Government report was very bullish
as he had forecast and the market went up. This was
the time when he expected the market to make final top
for a big decline. On September 8th he sold 2800 bales
of December at 24.40 and on the same day sold 2000
bales of December at 24.50 for short account. On September 9th he sold 500 more December at 23.30; on
September 11th sold 300 December at 22.30. On September 13th he bought 2800 December at 21.60 to cover
his short contract. On September 14th he sold 1000
December at 22.60. On September 17th sold 500 December at 21.60 and on September 21st sold 300 December at 20.60. September 23rd he figured that the
market was bottom for a rally and bought 1800 December at 20.60, and on the same day bought 1000 December
at 20.60 for long account. On September 28th he sold
1000 December at 22c and also went short 1000 December at 22.10. On September 29th he bought 1000
December at 21.30 and on September 29th bought
1000 December at 21.30 for long account. On October
3rd he sold 1000 December at 21.50 and also went short

197
of 1000 December at 21.50. On October 6th he bought
1000 December at 20.75 and went long, because he
figured the market would be higher for the Government
report on October 8th.
ROBERT GORDON'S GREAT CAMPAIGN IN MAJOR MOTORS
On Sunday, June 19, 1927, Robert Gordon spent the
day studying his charts and working out his cycles for
stocks, cotton and grain. He was short of Major Motors
and was watching it very closely. On this day he made
a new and great discovery of a time factor from which
he figured that Major Motors would decline until about
June 30th and then start an advance which would last
until about September 16th, 1927, when the Company
would be 19 years old and at that time the stock would
reach final high and would then go down to February
to April, 1929. He figured that the stock should advance to around 270 by September 16th and made up
his mind to watch it closely and cover his shorts if it
went down around June 30th, and then start buying
the stock. On June 30th it declined and he bought in
his short contracts and bought for long account 500
shares of Major Motors at 192½. He decided to pyramid it all the way up. On July 15th he bought 500
shares at 204; on July 21st he bought 300 at 214 and
on July 26th bought 300 more at 224. On August 5th
the stock advanced to 230 and he raised his stop on
1600 shares to 225. On August 8th his stock was sold
out at 225. He still believed that the stock would go up
to around 270 by September 16th but he expected a
reaction of about 12 to 15 points so he decided to wait

198
for a few days and watch his charts to see how the stock
acted. On August 12th Major Motors declined to 218,
being down a little over 12 points as he figured, and he
bought 1000 shares at 218. He placed a stop at 212,
a point which he figured it would not decline to. The
advance started, and on August 20th he bought 300
shares at 228; on August 24th bought 300 shares more
at 238 and on August 26th bought 300 shares more at
248. When he started pyramiding, his plan was to
buy or sell the largest amount first and then gradually
decrease buying and selling smaller amounts on the way
up or down, and always using a stop loss order. On
September 7th the stock advanced to 253 and he raised
his stop on his entire amount to 243. This stop was
never reached but on September 14th a rapid advance
was on and he bought 300 shares more at 258, giving
him a line of 2200 shares of stock. He figured that it
should advance on September 16th to around 270.
When the market advanced to 272 at this time he sold
out his 2200 shares at 272.
He cleaned up a profit on this deal of over $80,000.00,
and as he figured that the stock would make final top
around this time he decided to put out a line of short
stock and pyramid all the way down, remaining short
for the long pull. On September 17th he sold 500
shares of the new Major Motors stock at 138 and 500
shares at 137 and placed a stop on it at 147.
He had made it a rule that after he had made a large
amount of profits that he would never risk more than
10 per cent of his profits on the first new deal, and that
if that deal went wrong and he lost 10 per cent of the

199
capital, he would decrease his trading so that the next
loss would only be 10 per cent of his remaining profits.
In this way he figured that the market would have to
beat him ten consecutive times for him to lose all the
profits he had made, and his studies of past records
showed that this could never happen. He placed orders
to sell more Major Motors at 128, 118, 108 and 98 because he expected the first decline to run until the
latter part of December, 1927, and after that time he
would put out shorts again on a rally to hold and pyramid on the way down into the Spring of 1929. His
great discovery of what stocks would do at a certain age
enabled him to make enormous profits when stocks
reached the age where they would have fast moves up
or down in a very short time.
October, 1927, was a beautiful month in New York.
The weather was warm and the sun shone brightly every
day. It reminded Robert of the Fall of 1926 when he
had gone to Sherman, Texas to visit Marie. He
thought of what a great change had taken place in one
year, of the fortune that he had made in the market,
but money would not buy relief for his aching heart.
Days, weeks and months had drifted slowly by, but
no word from Marie Stanton. She seemed to be lost as
though the earth had swallowed her up.
The great decline in stocks which he forecast for the
Fall and Winter of 1927 took place and he made money
rapidly on the short side of stocks. He was selling short
Central Steel and Major Motors and other stocks. He
had bought Corn and Wheat in October and made big
profits later in the year. Money was piling up fast

200
and in the latter part of October, 1927, he had made
over $300,000. He had kept Marie’s money in a
separate account from his own and her original $400.00
was now over $20,000. Robert continued to keep
her account separate; he wanted to make all the money
he could and have it as a surprise for Marie, to prove
to her his faithfulness and thoughtfulness when she was
away, and also to prove his confidence in her return.
Robert became known as “The Boy Wizard of Wall
Street.” His fame became known and old men of Wall
Street talked about his marvelous success. Robert refused to be interviewed by the newspapers or tell anything about his method of working in the market. Seldom ever visited a broker’s office and made very few
friends. He worked upon his invention, and Walter
was his sole companion. Walter had met an old man
by the name of Henry Watson who was a veteran of
Wall Street, now over 70 years of age, had made and
lost many fortunes and had seen the biggest and best
plungers go on the rocks in Wall Street. Walter introduced Mr. Watson to Robert and he became very much
interested in the old man’s reminiscences. He told
Robert the history of Daniel Drew and got him to read
the book of Drew’s life, which showed how Drew, after
making $13,000,000 lost it all and died practically
a pauper. Also told the history of Daniel Sully; how
he made $10,000,000 to $15,000,000 in the Cotton market, but by violating natural laws lost it all in
a few days in the crash of Cotton in March, 1904, and
then disappeared from the financial horizon. How Livermore, the boy wonder of 1907 and 1908, had accumu-

201
lated millions, owned fine yachts, lost everything, had
gone thru bankruptcy, but had later recouped his fortunes. How Eugene Scales, another striking example,
who at one time had over ten millions dollars paper
profit in the Cotton market, had lost all of it. How
Allen A. Ryan, at the height of his fame, when he defied the Gods of Chance and the unwritten law of Wall
Street with the result that his millions were all lost,
had to go thru bankruptcy and paid only about twenty
cents on each one hundred dollars.
Mr. Watson also told Robert how Durant had become
the giant motor magnate and formed the General Motors
Corporation in 1908 and had made a great success, accumulating millions before the war days and afterwards. He was in full control of General Motors and
was reputed to be worth over a hundred million dollars
when the stock was selling at $410.00 in the Spring of
1920. Durant was very bullish and talked of General
Motors going very much higher. Deflation started in
the Summer of 1920, and all stocks declined rapidly.
He remained bullish, continuing to buy General Motors
all the way down. The stock had been split up on a
ten for one basis and the new stock which sold at $42.00
in March, 1920, an equivalent of $420.00 per share,
declined to $14.00 per share in December, 1920, and
finally in the Spring of 1922 sold at $8.25. He had
refused to sell; in fact had bought all his brokers would
let him have all the way down. When the stock declined to $15.00 per share, Durant was ruined. His
fortune of over one hundred millions dollars was wiped
out. The Morgans and Duponts took over his holdings

202
at a figure reported to be around $5.00 per share, and he
lost control of the gigantic corporation which had made
him famous. Later Durant organized a new company
and came back fast. He went back into the stock market
and in the great Coolidge Bull campaign from 1924 to
1927 was again a dominant factor in General Motors
and other stocks and was reputed to have made fifty
millions, or more.
The old man said that Durant was one of the very
rare exceptions of men who had gone broke in Wall
Street and had been able to come back after they were
60 years of age. Told Robert that Wall Street was a
place of ups and downs -- mostly downs, and that the
time to quit was when you were young and had made
your money.
Robert explained to Mr. Watson that he was not
guessing and gambling on hope but was following science and not trading on human judgment as he followed
the law of cycles as laid down in the Holy Bible. Mr.
Watson said, “I wish you success, and for your benefit
I will give you my opinion as to the cause of most of
the failures in Wall Street, for I know the history of
the men who have made the greatest amounts of money,
and know most of them personally. Selfishness and
greed were the cause of the fall of Daniel Drew. He
was not loyal to his associates. His idea was to get the
money and look out for himself regardless of whom he
hurt. Conditions changed and Drew failed to change
with them. The result was that he died a pauper.
Thomas W. Lawson, the man who wrote, ‘Friday the
13th,’ was one of the most daring traders that Wall

203
Street has ever known, worth at one time probably forty
to fifty million dollars. He, too, died practically penniless. At one time Lawson had the backing of the
Standard Oil crowd and turned against them after they
had helped him to make millions. In my opinion, he
cut off the hand that fed him and his ruthless attack
on men who had been his friends, was the cause of his
downfall. Men must be loyal to positions of trust and
not reveal secrets of great financial deals by which they
profited.” Robert said that was his idea. As long as a
man remained loyal to his mother, his country, his
associates; above all his wife or sweetheart, success was
bound to crown his efforts. He believed in the law of
compensation; that when a man broke faith with others,
he had broken faith with himself, and that failure would
follow.
Mr. Watson told Robert that Sully made his money
in cotton, and after accumulating millions, quit specializing in cotton and began to trade in stocks and various
other commodities, which divided his attention and he
was unable to concentrate on cotton alone, the thing that
brought him the great success. “I could go over the history of Scales, Livermore, Durant, Ryan and the balance of the great men of Wall Street, and in analyzing
their trading, the one weak point would be found in all
of them. They diversified too much. Did not specialize in one commodity or a few special stocks, but spread
all over the board. The result was they had too many
irons in the fire and when one thing started to go wrong
and they began to lose money, they would invariably get
out of stocks and commodities on which they were mak-

204
ing money and keep those that were going against them.
Another weak point was that when luck turned against
a man in Wall Street, he kept on trying to recoup his
losses instead of stopping just as soon as there was an
indication that the tide had turned against him. Most
men at the heights of prosperity lose their sense of
good judgment, become inflated with their success, think
they are infallible, refuse to follow science or the advice
of anyone, with the result that they continue to buck
the tide till all their money is gone.”
“Mr. Watson,” said Robert, "I believe that if a man
starts out to make money for unselfish purposes, he will
succeed. That is what I am going to do. Your experience is very valuable to me. Your intimate knowledge
of the cause of the failures of other men is a good lesson. I have studied the Bible very carefully because I
believe it is the greatest scientific book ever written.
The laws are plainly laid down how to make a success.
There is a time and a season for everything, and if a
man does things according to the time, he will succeed.
The Bible makes it plain that not all are born to be
prophets, nor to be farmers, doctors or lawyers, but that
each can succeed in his own special line, according to
time and place. If men would only follow the Bible and
know that there is a time to stop trying to make money
and to keep what you have, then wait for another season
when the time is ripe, they could continue to succeed indefinitely. Has any man ever made a large fortune out
of Wall Street and kept it, Mr. Watson?” “Oh, yes,”
he replied, “if there were not exceptions to the rule,
business would not continue to run. I could tell you of
dozens of them, but one striking example is that of the

205
late E. H. Harriman who died worth about three hundred million dollars. He had probably made out of the
market a hundred million dollars in the last three or
four years of his life.” Robert asked, “How did he
do it?” Mr. Watson answered, “He stuck to one class
of stocks -- railroads. He studied them day and night,
never diverted his attention to other lines. I believe
that he possessed some mathematical method which enabled him to forecast stocks many months and years in
advance. I have gone over his manipulations and the
stocks he traded in, and found that they conform closely
to the law of harmonic analysis. He certainly knew
something about time and season because he bought at
the right time and sold at the right time. He paid a
great price for his success, because he neglected his
health, sacrificed everything to make his railroads a
success and died too young. Such men are the backbone
of our country’s prosperity. Constructive geniuses of
this kind are few and far between and we need more
of them. Man’s greatest enemy in speculation is ‘hope.’
He refuses to face facts, and facts are stubborn things.
Hope spurs us on. It may be an anchor to the soul, but
a very slim anchor in speculation, when facts are against
us.”
Mr. Watson told Robert that his friend Walter had
related to him all about his love affair and the disappearance of Marie. He said, “My boy, the great love you
have for her is now furnishing the hope which will carry
you to success. When that hope is gone, you will have
to find a new one or you cannot go on.” Robert told
him that Marie had said that anticipation was greater
than realization. “Robert,” he said, "I want to tell

206
you the story of my love affair. I have made and lost
many fortunes in Wall Street, and when things have
gone wrong and I have reached the depths of despondency, have seen my last dollar fade away, been deserted
by friends of my prosperous days, then when there
seemed nothing else to live for, nothing to make me fight
on, there would come a hope, the angel of memory would
steal over me and I would again hope that some day,
somewhere, I would find my Katie.” Here the old man’s
eyes grew dim with tears. He drew an old wallet from
his pocket, took out a package, slowly unwrapped it.
In there was a picture in a little gold frame. The aged
hands trembled, his voice grew weak as he handed the
picture to Robert with some faded flowers which he
had pressed out and kept and said: “These flowers were
picked by her own little hands over forty years ago.”
He then broke down and wept bitterly. Robert was
deeply moved by the old man’s great devotion to his
long-lost sweetheart and begged him to tell more of the
story.
The old man dried his eyes and went on -- "Over 50
years ago when I was a young man, I lived near St.
Joseph, Missouri. I went to school at a country schoolhouse. Katie Larson was a beautiful young girl. We
grew up together. I don’t really know when I fell in
love with her, but I know that in my school days I loved
her and always intended to marry her. The years went
by. I had never told Katie of my love. She had grown
to be a woman and I kind of took it for granted that
she knew and understood that I loved her and intended
to marry her. Time went by and we were often together. There was never any trouble or disagreements.

207
I was anxious to succeed and decided that I should make
some money before I proposed to Katie. Time drifted
swiftly by, I was not as successful as I hoped to be,
and finally one day I received the saddest news of my
life -- Katie had married. I realized that she had probably waited and hoped for me to make known my intentions but my financial affairs had held me back. I
knew it was all my fault. I should have confided my
plans to her and asked her to have patience and wait.
From that day I was a changed man. My heart was
broken and if no hope had been left for me, I would
never have gone on, but from that day on, hoped and
prayed that I might one day have her, even if for only
a few years or weeks, in my declining years. Katie
moved away after marrying and probably it was the
hope for her love some day that spurred me to action.
I worked harder than ever. Success crowned my efforts.
I studied medicine, moved to Dallas, Texas, became a
very successful doctor. There I met a woman whom I
thought I loved. We were married and lived seemingly
happy for a few years, but the spark of love for Katie
in my heart never died. We had a little girl born and
I named her Katie, which proved later a very foolish
thing to do. She was the pride of my life, my hope was
centered on her. Finally I made the mistake that many
men make. I told my wife of my great love for Katie.
After that time, she lost faith in me and we slowly
drifted apart. Then came separation and divorce. I
had accumulated considerable money and now being
very unhappy, I decided to leave Dallas and go to New
York and try the speculative markets. Success and
failure have followed alternately, like the rising and

208
falling of the tides. There has never been a day when
I have come to Wall Street that I have not hoped to
one day meet Katie again. That hope has kept me
alive. I have often tried to find her, but the years have
brought changes. She moved away to California and
I have never been able to find out whether she is living
or dead. I hope that you will never have to go thru
the years that I have gone thru without the love and
comfort that the woman you love can give. Your faith
is supreme and that will carry you safely thru, and even
if you never find Marie, if is better to live for that ideal
because it will make you a better man, as love always
brings out the best.”
Robert was very much interested in the old man’s
story, but very sorry that it had never ended as he had
hoped it would with him and Marie. Mr. Watson told
Robert that he thought he had wonderful ideas about
speculation, and that if he would only stick to them and
not be swept off his feet by success, that he would eventually reach the greatest height. He quoted Kipling’s
“If.”
If you can keep your head when all about you
Are losing theirs and blaming it on you;
If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you,
But make allowance for their doubting too:
If you can wait and not be tired by waiting,
Or being lied about, don’t deal in lies,
Or being hated don’t give way to hating,
And yet don’t look too good, nor talk too wise;
If you can dream -- and not make dreams your master;
If you can think -- and not make thoughts your aim,
If you can meet with Triumph and Disaster
And treat those two impostors just the same:

209
If you can bear to hear the truth you’ve spoken
Twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools,
Or watch the things you gave your life to, broken,
And stoop and build 'em up with worn-out tools;
If you can make one heap of all your winnings
And risk it on one turn of pitch-and-toss,
And lose, and start again at your beginnings
And never breathe a word about your loss:
If you can force your heart and nerve and sinew
To serve your turn long after they are gone,
And so hold on when there is nothing in you
Except the Will which says to them: “Hold on!”
If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue,
Or walk with Kings -- nor lose the common touch,
If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you,
If all men count with you, hut none too much:
If you can fill the unforgiving minute
With sixty seconds’ worth of distance ran,
Yours is the Earth and everything that’s in it,
And -- which is more -- you’ll be a Man, my son!
He told Robert the greatest test of a man would come
when he reached the stage of great prosperity. That
almost any man could stand reverses but very few could
stand prosperity. Money could buy so many things
which were not necessary to a man’s happiness and attracted so many people who would do him harm rather
than benefit him that most men started on the down
grade as a result of too much money and too great prosperity. Robert agreed that this was right. Said that
with him money was only a means to an end and said
that he wanted it so he could help others and benefit
his country. Mr. Watson told him that as soon as his
success was generally known and he was well established
in New York many selfish women would be attracted

210
to him and that if he possessed the weak point which
had been the undoing of many men, he would be lost.
That was being influenced by flattery from beautiful
women. He said, “Remember, my boy, they are attracted to the money and not to the man, but few men
can keep their heads at a time when women and men
crowd around to praise their success. I remember a
poem that I used to read when I was a boy, part of
which runs something like this:
‘They crowd around me, those stately dames and belles,
And pay to me the royal homage that all great success
compels;
But where is she, that sweetheart of my former years,
Who stood by me, when others could see nothing in me.’
You will find it so, Robert. Men desert you when
money is gone, like pirates fleeing from a sinking ship.
I admonish you not to put your trust in money or men.
Continue as you have, trust God, have faith in him,
stick to your first love, and happiness and success will be
your reward.”
When the old man had finished talking, Robert
noticed that the eyes had become still, his cheeks were
pale, his hand dropped limp at his side. Robert rushed
to him and soon realized that the old man was very ill.
He hurriedly summoned a doctor. Soon after laying the
old gentleman on the couch and making him comfortable, the doctor arrived. After hasty examination, he
told Robert that the end was near. They decided to
send for a minister and when he arrived, the old man
was clutching the picture in his hand. The minister
bent over him and asked him if he realized that the
end was near and if he had made his peace with God,

211
adding, “Will you die in the faith of a Christian?”
The old man sprang up from the couch suddenly, as the
new strength had been instilled in his frail old body.
He raised his hand and showed the doctor the picture
and said, “Will that faith bring me back Katie, the
only woman I have every really loved?” The doctor
knew that his strength was fast waning and got him to
lie down on the couch again. The minister whispered
consoling words to him, told him that “God so loved
the world that he gave his only begotten son that whomsoever believeth on him should not perish, but have
everlasting life.” Again he asked, “Do you believe in
Jesus Christ? Will you accept the faith?” Again the
old man replied, “Will that faith bring back to me my
Katie?” His voice was growing weaker, the doctor
knew that it was a matter of but a few moments. The
minister again bent over him and whispered slowly,
“Will you accept Jesus Christ as your saviour and die
in the faith of a Christian?” With a faltering weak
voice he answered, “Will that faith give me back Katie,
the greatest love of my life?” The doctor turned to the
minister and said, “He has gone to his reward.” “With
a love like that, such loyalty and faith to a long-lost
love must receive its reward in heaven and a just God
will extend mercy to a soul like that,” said the minister.
Robert was in tears. He felt that he had net only lost
a friend, but a very dear friend, and that while the old
man’s going had taken something from his life, yet the
example was one that would be of great comfort and
benefit to him. He knew that he would live faithful to
Marie, and that he would die, as the old man died,
longing for Marie, no matter what happened.

212
CHAPTER XVII

ROBERT turned to the Bible for consolation. Read
every chapter of the Song of Solomon. Was very
much impressed with Chapter 2: 14:
O my dove, that art in the clefts of the rock, in the secret
places of the stairs, let me see thy countenance, let me hear
thy voice, for sweet is thy voice and thy countenance is comely.
Robert longed to hear Marie’s voice and prayed that she
might come forth from her secret hiding place. He
read Chapter 8: 6th and 7th verses:
Set me as a seal upon thine heart, as a seal upon thine arm,
for love is strong as death; jealousy as cruel as the grave;
the coals thereof are coals of fire which have a most vehement
flame.
Many waters cannot quench love, neither can the floods
drown it; if a man would give all the substance of his house
for love, he would utterly be condemned.
Robert realized that nothing could quench his love and that Marie
was the only remedy for his aching heart.
Turning to Daniel 9: 21, he read:
Yea while I was speaking in prayer, even the man Gabriel
when I had seen in the vision at the beginning being caused
to fly swiftly, touched me about the time of the evening oblation.
Robert knew that this indicated that people did fly in
the older days, and that we were now only repeating past
cycles. He read Chapter 12: 4th verse:
Let thou, 0 Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book

213
even to the time of the end; many shall run to and fro,
and knowledge shall be increased.
Robert thought that we were now nearing the time of
the end because man was running to and fro in fast
automobiles and traveling swiftly thru the air in airplanes; that new discoveries were being made and that
knowledge was increasing. He must hasten his new
invention. He read the 12th verse:
Blesseth is he that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand
three hundred and five and thirty days.
Robert believed that he understood the cycle and knew
the number of years, months and days referred to in
Daniel’s prophecies. Calculated that from March, 1931,
until the end of June, 1932, would be troublesome times
for the United States. Depression, war and panic would
hang over the destinies of his country. Robert had gone
deeply into the Bible study in order to learn more about
the great science of Astrology. From the Bible he
interpreted that he belonged to the tribe of Issachar, the
fifth son of Jacob and that this name indicated price,
reward, recompense. He understood from this that he
would have to pay the price, but he would receive the
reward for his faithfulness and devotion to Marie.
Robert turned to Genesis, Chapter 30, 17th and 18th
verses:
And God hearkened unto Leah, and she conceived and bore
Jacob, the fifth son, and Leah said God hath given me my
hire, because I have given my maiden to my husband; and she
called his name Issachar.
He read Genesis 49: 14 and 15, where Jacob blessed his
12 sons:

214
Issachar is a strong ass, couching down between two burdens
and he saw that the rest was good and the land, that it was
pleasant; and bowed his shoulders to bear, and became a
servant unto tribute.
Robert knew that this was the description of a man
born in June under the sign Gemini and that he was
born to bear a burden, that he must serve his people
and be a comfort and help to carry their burdens. That
the sign under which he was born was a double-bodied
sign, known as the sign of the twins, that things would
repeat in his life, that he would have many ups and
downs, but that he would reach his reward thru science.
He was anxious to learn of Marie's characteristics from
the Bible and thru Astrology and found that she was
born under the sign Libra, the sign of the balance, ruled
by the Goddess of Love, Venus, which endowed her
with her great beauty. Reading Genesis 29: 32, he found
that Marie belonged to the tribe of Reuben, "And Leah
conceived and bare a son and she called his name Reuben; for she said 'Surely the Lord hath looked upon
my affliction; now therefore my husband will love me.' "
The symbol and meaning of this name is "one who sees
the sun," the vision of the sun, and indicates great
intuition, keen perception and power of foresight. Genesis 49: 3-4:
Reuben thou art my first born, my might and the beginning
of my strength, the excellency of dignity, and the excellency
of power; unstable as water, thou shalt not excel.
Robert understood that this referred to Marie's character and disposition. She was unstable, changeable and
moody, but he felt that her love was fixed and that

215
eventually she would return to him. He read all the
books he could get on Astrology and began to understand
why things had happened as they had. It made him a
better philosopher and helped him to bear his sorrows
with greater patience.
Robert continued reading Isaiah 45: 13:
I have raised him up in righteousness, and I will direct
all his ways: he shall build my city and he shall let go my
captives, not for price, nor reward, saith the Lord of hosts.
This probably meant that the time would come when the
Lord would direct man and that when wars came and
prisoners were made captives, they would be set free without price or reward. It was Robert's idea that this was
the way it should be when love ruled the world.
Robert read Hebrews 11: 3 and 5:
Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed
by the word of God, so that the things which are seen were
not made of things which do appear.
By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death;
and was not found, because God had translated him: for before his translation he had this testimony that he had pleased
God.
Robert believed that Enoch went away in an airplane
and knew that faith was the great sustaining force, and
that without faith it was impossible to please God, for
he read where it says, "For he that cometh to God must
believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them
that diligently seek him." Robert knew that he had
faith and that that faith would sustain him during
the time of trials and troubles. In Romans 12: 2:
And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by

216
the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that
good and acceptable and perfect will of God.
Robert knew and understood how to renew his mind and
body because he knew what Jesus meant when he said -"Destroy this temple and in three days I will build it
up again." He knew that it referred to the temple of
the human body.
Robert read the 9th to 13th verses of the same
Chapter:
Let love be without dissimulation. Abhor that which is
evil; cleave to that which is good. Be kindly affectioned one
to another with brotherly love, in honor preferring one another; not slothful in business; fervent in spirit; serving the
Lord, rejoicing in hope, patient in tribulation; continuing
instant in prayer.
Robert intended to be patient in tribulations and was
going to be kind and show brotherly love; he would have
faith, hope and pray for the day when he would again
have Marie. Love was the fulfilling of the law and
reward was promised for obedience to that law. The
more he read the Bible the more he was convinced of its
great value and that all of the knowledge and instruction that man needed for any purpose or at any time,
was to be found in that good old book. Robert decided
that he would not only pray without ceasing, but would
spend some of the money that he had made, to try to
find Marie, as no word had ever been received of her up
to this time. He employed a detective agency to make a
search all over the United States.
Mr. Kennelworth left New York and returned to
Texarkana in the latter part of June, 1927. He bought
cotton heavilv on Robert's advice that the Government

217
report would be very bullish and would have a big
advance during July according to Robert's forecast
earlier in the year. The Government Report on July
9th showed a big decrease in acreage and prices started
to advance again. Robert wrote and telegraphed Mr.
Kennelworth that October cotton would advance to
around 18.50 to 18.75 before there was any important
reaction. On July 16th October cotton crossed 18.50
and Mr. Kennelworth wired Robert as follows:
July 16, 1927
Robert Gordon
69 Wall Street
New York City
CONGRATULATIONS YOUR FORECASTS ARE WONDERFUL HAVE OVER
TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS PROFIT IN COTTON AS SOON
AS YOU GET TIME WORK UP YOUR CYCLE ON PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTIONS AND WRITE ME WHAT THE OUTLOOK IS FOR 1928
J. H. Kennelworth

To which Robert replied:
July 16, 1927.
MY DEAR MR. KENNELWORTH:
Your telegram just received. Am very happy that you
have played the cotton market heavily and are making big
profits. I, too, have made over a hundred thousand dollars.
Will get busy in a few days and work out the cycles for
1928 and let you know what the outlook is as to who will be
elected President.
Walter and I are getting along nicely. I am making good
progress on my plans for the airship. Have employed a detective agency to search all over the United States for Marie.
I am patiently awaiting news of her. Believe she is still alive.
Thanks for your good wishes. With kindest regards, I am
Sincerely yours,
ROBERT GORDON.

218
CHAPTER XVIII

AFTER making his calculations on the Presidential 
election in 1928, Robert sent the following Fore-
cast to Mr. Kennelworth:

July 20, 1927.
1928 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
In order to determine the conditions that will prevail during
1928 and who will be elected, we must look up past cycles.
I refer you to Ecclesiastes 3: 15 -- "That which hath been is
now and that which is to be hath already been, and God requireth that which is past."
We know that we are repeating past cycles as referred to in
Ezekiel's Prophecy -- Chapter 20: 46 -- "Son of man set thy
face toward the south, and drop thy word toward the south,
and prophesy against the forest of the south field, and say
to the forest of the south, Hear the word of the Lord, Thus
saith the Lord God, Behold, I will kindle a fire in thee and
it shall devour every green tree in thee and every dry tree,
the flaming flame shall not be quenched, and all faces from
the south to the north shall be burned therein."
The troubles in Nicaragua, the destructive floods and storms
which have visited Florida, and the destruction by the floods
along the Mississippi during the past Spring all show that
troubles are starting in the south. We are in a cycle which
will repeat and cause wars which will start from the south
and southwest, probably Mexico. All of these events will have
a great bearing on the Presidential election in 1928, because
war will be in the air and the people will be very much upset.

219
As referred to in Exodus 32: 17 -- "And when Joshua heard
the noise of the people as they shouted, he said unto Moses,
There is a noise of war in the camp." There will be political
wars and revolutionary changes in the United States in 1928.
People will want to choose new leaders. Read Judges 5: 8 -"They chose new gods; then was war within the gates: was
there a shield or spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?"
The people will need to choose an able leader to prepare for
the great war in the air.
I have made a study of President Coolidge's date of birth,
name and numbers. He is the strongest man that the Republicans have, but he has not wanted to accept the nomination
and will probably not if he can get out of it. He has the
best chance of any Republican for being elected. Along about
March or April, 1928, some important event will happen
which is likely to cause President Coolidge to refuse to accept the nomination. When the convention meets in June or
July there will be long delays, dissatisfaction and fights among
the old Republican leaders as to whom they will nominate.
From the cycle that we are repeating, there is a strong indication that President Coolidge will not be renominated. He
will do something which will cause large financial interests
and moneyed men to withdraw their support from him.
Since God requires that which is past, then past cycles and
events in the history of the United States must repeat. We
look up the names and dates of birth to determine when
certain names or initial letters should repeat. The letter "C"
is one which repeats in events of the United States as shown
by the election of Grover Cleveland the second time in 1892.
President Calvin Coolidge, with the "C" strong in both names,
succeeded President Harding, August 2, 1923, and was elected
in 1924. This was really a repetition of the letter "C" the
same as Cleveland's second election, and in view of the fact
that President Coolidge has served about 6 years, the letter
"C" is not due to repeat its vibration in 1928, but might repeat in 1932 when President Coolidge could possibly be elected
again following the war and troublesome times.

220
The most favorable letters for the Republican Party which
could repeat in 1928 are B, J, F, and L. In view of the cycle
which indicates war from 1928 to 1932, there is a strong indication that the letter "L" will repeat as it did during the
Civil War when Lincoln was President. This might mean the
nomination of Borah, Butler, Johnson or Lowden. I haven't
the dates of birth of any of these men, therefore, am unable
to say before the nominations take place and we know whom
their opponents will be, whether any of them would be elected
or not.
In regard to the Democratic nomination, the cycle indicates a
strong possibility of victory for the Democrats or a new
party. Governor Alfred Smith is not likely to be nominated
and if nominated would not be elected. The letter "S" has
never appeared in the surname of any president of the United
States, and as we are only due to repeat past events, he has a
very slim chance of being elected.
The letters F, M and R are due to repeat for the Democrats.
This might mean Ford, McAdoo or Reed. According to the
date of birth, cycle and numbers, McAdoo would have a much
better chance of getting the nomination than Smith. Reed
looks stronger than either of them. Governor Smith will continue popular and the possibilities of him being nominated
will look promising until about May, 1928, when there will
be a sudden change of public opinion against him. Support
will be withdrawn and some of the strong Democratic leaders
will turn to other possible candidates. Smith's name will no
doubt come before the convention, but I see no chance of him
being nominated.
There is a strong indication that the man who will be nominated will be a "dark horse," a man probably born in May or
June. Revolutionary changes are indicated. The question of
the 18th Amendment is likely to split both of the old parties.
A farm and labor party or some other political party may
spring up and defeat both of the old parties. The public
will be very much divided and sentiment will be badly mixed
in the summer and fall of 1928.

221
With the present data in hand and the events that are to
follow the next Presidential election, my judgment is that a
Republican will not be elected. The President who takes
office in March, 1929, will start under very unfavorable conditions similar to those which faced President Wilson at the
time he entered his second term and also conditions will repeat
similar to those that followed the election of Abraham Lincoln in 1861. There will be trouble with foreign countries
over immigration laws. Tariff will be a sore spot and cause
disagreements with foreign countries.
I will have my calculations made up for the stock and commodity markets for 1928 and 1929 soon and when they are
completed will send a copy of them. There will be some big
opportunities for long pull trading in stocks and commodities
during 1928. I want you to be in on the deals with me and
hope I can help you make a million dollars.
ROBERT GORDON.

222
CHAPTER XIX

DECEMBER, 1927, stocks had been declining for 
several weeks. This month stocks declined rap-
idly and Robert was heavily short. Wheat and corn
advanced. Robert had been on the right side for several
months. Just before Christmas he figured that he would
cover his short stocks and wait for a rally which he
expected would come in January or February. He now
had profits which gave him working capital of over
five hundred thousand dollars, allowing for all the
money that he had spent; so he decided to put more time
in working on his invention, as he was now in position
to spend money enough to develop his first airplane. He
kept in touch every few days with the detective agency,
but no word had been received from Marie. Her parents
had about given up hope that Marie was alive. Robert
wrote them a very encouraging letter because he wanted
to cheer them up at Christmas time. Told them that he
believed Marie was alive and that he had faith in God
and wanted them to have faith and continue to pray for
Marie's return. Informed them of his great financial
success and told them that he had continued to keep
Marie's account separate and had traded very conservatively for her and that she now had over $40,000
which he intended to try to increase and have as a great
surprise for her. Robert sent beautiful Christmas gifts
to them in memory of Marie.

223
A few days before Christmas there was a big decline
in the stock market. All kinds of unfavorable rumors
were afloat. Business conditions were bad. War clouds
were gathering thick in Europe. Newspapers talked of
the uncertainties in the new year due to the coming
presidential election. The public had lost confidence
and were selling stocks. Robert decided that this was
the time to cash in so he covered a big line of Shorts in
Major Motors, Central Steel and others. This was a
great Christmas for him, financially. From his beginning with 200 bales of cotton in January, 1927, with
a capital of $1,000.00 and $10,000.00 which Mr. Kennelworth gave him later, thru his successful pyramiding
he had made over half a million dollars. He was overjoyed with his success because it would help him now
to complete his airplane and other inventions. His
mind turned back to Christmas, 1926, when he had
bought Marie a beautiful ring with the money he had
saved. At that time he little realized that so much
could happen in one short year. He thought of all he
could do for Marie this year if he only knew where she
was. Decided that he would buy some beautiful presents for her anyway and keep them until she returned to
show her that he was thinking of her on Christmas. He
bought a beautiful diamond ring and a bracelet set with
sapphires and diamonds. When the jeweler delivered
them Robert looked them over and thought of all Marie's
beauty and purity. His faith in her was still supreme.
He was very sad and wept bitterly because he felt more
keenly than ever the need for her. He wanted her to be
with him to share his financial success.

224
His heart turned to his next dearest friend -- his
mother. He decided to try to make it the happiest
Christmas of her life and bought her every kind of a
present that he thought would make her happy and
comfortable and sent her a check for $5,000.00 to do with
just as she pleased and buy anything she wanted.
Begged her to come to New York to see him soon after
the new year, as he wanted her to see the sights of the
city, and thought the trip would be good for her health.
In the early part of 1928 Robert calculated that war
was inevitable between England and Russia. He figured that the war would start not later than the summer and that many nations would be involved and that
later an attack on the United States would come. His
first airplane was now completed, -- a small one according to the plan laid down by Ezekiel in the Bible. The
plane had four wings and could fly on either one of its
four sides. It had a new motor with 12 cylinders and
could be operated either with gas, electricity or compressed air. He had constructed a wheel within a wheel
so that he could lower his plane and land anywhere he
chose and could rise straight up. One motor had a
propeller in the center of the plane to lift it up while
the other motor started its direct motion. He could
drive his plane backwards or forwards. It was a great
success and the boy wizard of Wall Street was now
hailed as a new Lindbergh of the air. There was an
extra motor built with a collapsible propeller so that he
could shift it from the center of the airplane to the tail,
enabling it to go backward or forward as he willed.
The wings were so arranged that they could either re-

225
main stationary or be set in motion up or down by
motor. This was a new and valuable feature in the construction of airplanes.
Robert's next invention was to build a silent motor,
or a muffler, which would prevent any sound. He knew
that this would be very useful in war. After he had
completed this invention, tested it and proved it a success, he offered it to the United States Government, but
after the army officers, who knew very little about this
new invention had looked it over, they refused it. Robert then sailed away in his new plane which he had
named "The St. Marie." He visited England, France,
Germany and in the Spring of 1928 made the longest
successful flight to Japan, where he was received with
great honor. Japan was very much interested in his
new plane and in his muffler. The Japanese Government quickly closed a deal and bought his invention for
a large sum of money. Robert felt that probably one
day this invention would be used against his own country in time of war, but knew that the United States
would have to learn a lesson -- that too often in the past
American inventions had been sold to foreign countries
because his own Government would not buy them.
While in Japan Robert was entertained and introduced to many beautiful titled ladies and prominent men,
but he remained loyal to Marie for his great success had
not turned his head. He was still searching for Marie,
always hoping to find her. He returned to New York
in the Summer of 1928 and was now reputed as being
worth more than a million dollars, after making more
successful deals in stocks, cotton and wheat. He had

226
followed the advice of old Henry Watson and had never
scattered over two or three markets at the same time.
When he had a deal on in cotton or wheat, he stuck to
that until he closed the transaction. When he went into
a stock campaign he stayed out of the commodity
markets. He was meeting with success in every direction, but his longing for Marie continued and the vision
of her beautiful face continued to haunt him.
In May, 1928, Walter received a radiogram from
Robert saying that he was leaving Japan the latter part
of the month and was going to sail "The St. Marie"
back to New York. Walter and Miss Edna Quinton,
the secretary, had followed the newspaper reports of
the great reception tendered Robert by the officials of the
Japanese Government and the report of the large amount
of money they had paid for his noiseless patent for
air planes. Walter was going to graduate in June so
he wrote his father and informed him that Robert was
returning to New York soon with great honors and he
thought it appropriate to have a big celebration for him
when he arrived. As his father was coming to New
York anyway for the graduation exercises, he suggested
that he be there to greet Robert on his triumphant return.
Mr. Kennelworth, who was a member of the Chamber
of Commerce of Texarkana and one of the leading citizens, called a meeting of the Chamber of Commerce, informed them of the phenomenal success of Robert Gordon
who had left Texarkana one year previous an unknown
boy and who was now the most talked of young man
in the world. He had made more than a million dollars

227
following his own discovery of how to use the laws laid
down in the Bible for foretelling the future course of
cotton, grain and stocks; had built the most marvelous
airplane of the age; invented a muffler to make an airplane noiseless; had driven his own plane, "The St.
Marie" to Japan where he had been received with great
honors and the Japanese Government had bought his
invention for making airplanes silent. Mr. Kennelworth proposed that the leading citizens of Texarkana
go to New York to honor their favorite son on his return. When he had finished talking there was lasting
applause and hurrahs for Robert Gordon. Colonel
Stanton was in the audience. He arose and said that
he heartily endorsed the proposal and would donate
$10,000.00 to the expense fund, that they should go to
New York in a special train to greet the greatest young
man of the age who was born on a farm near Texarkana.
Everyone was in favor of it and the wealthy men all
followed Mr. Stanton in offering large sums of money
in order to make the reception a success. When the
meeting was over, J. H. Kennelworth drove out to the
country home of Amelia Gordon, Robert's mother. Told
her of her boy's success and the plans to meet him in
New York and give him a great reception, inviting her
to go on the special train as a guest of honor. She
thankfully accepted.
On June 9th Robert Gordon's 22nd birthday, the
great reception took place. The special train bearing
the leading citizens of Texarkana arrived, Robert had
landed at the new airport on Governor's Island without
any mishap to his plane. "The St. Marie" had per-

228
formed perfectly, making the trip from Japan at an
average speed of over 300 miles per hour. Robert received the surprise of his life when he saw his mother
and rushed to her, and after greeting her affectionately
turned to shake hands with Mr. Kennelworth and Walter and seeing Mr. and Mrs. Stanton there was overjoyed and thought sure that Marie had been found.
He rushed to greet her parents and his first words were,
"Where is Marie?" With tears in their eyes, they
informed him that not a word had been received in
regard to her. They proceeded immediately to the Commodore Hotel where the reception committee and the
entire delegation from Texarkana and arranged for a
dinner and celebration. Robert was happy to see all the
prominent business men from Texarkana there to greet
him. Mr. Kennelworth made the address. Told Robert how proud Texarkana was of him; said that this was
the age of the young man and that Robert had demonstrated that he was the greatest young man of his day.
Robert was overwhelmed at this great reception. He
thanked his friends; thanked Mr. Kennelworth, personally, and above all for bringing his dear old mother
to see him; said it was the happiest moment of his life
and that his one regret was that Marie was not there,
but that he still had hope of finding her. When the reception was over and Robert had a few moments alone
with his dear old mother, she said, "My son, do you
remember the dream you had when you were a little boy,
which you told me about? That you were riding a large
bird with white wings across the ocean and how the
foreign countries received you with great honor. My

229
boy, when you landed today I thought about that dream
and how it had been fulfilled. I hope that all of your
other dreams and ambitions will be realized and that
you will be rewarded with Marie's love, because you
have been faithful and loyal to her."
Robert said, "Mother, I do remember the dream quite
well, and when I was in Japan and they gave me such
great receptions and honored me, I thought of the dream
and I thought of you and how you had taught me how to
read the Bible and I thought of Marie and how I loved
her and felt that I would gladly give all of the honors
just to be with you and Marie alone because your love
and Marie's love mean more to me than everything else
that the world can give."
Walter Kennelworth was graduated from Columbia
College in June and prepared to work with Robert in
the office. Edna Quinton had proved to be a faithful
employee and a valuable aid to Robert. She had taken
care of his business and looked after his financial transactions while he was away. Robert soon went to work,
on a new invention, and perfected a machine to read
the minds of people a short distance away and also a
machine which he named the "Tel-talk." This machine
was made on the principle of the radio; by raising and
lowering it at certain angles it would record all the
conferences in the different buildings in Wall Street.
Robert also used this machine to get reports on all
the conferences of the big manipulators. He knew that
manipulators in Wall Street suspected that in some way
he understood their plans as he was making money too
fast and they were conspiring to find a way to get him

230
wrong on the market and break him. They changed
their plans often but found that each time Robert was
on the right side of the market. Even his friend Walter knew nothing about Robert's latest invention. He
kept it in a secret room, and no one had ever seen it but
himself. It was a very delicate little machine with
indicators like a compass, delicately balanced and operated by electricity. His success was causing great excitement and schemers wanted to get his secret. They
knew that Edna Quinton had been in his office ever since
he was in New York. She was invited to a dinner at the
Biltmore where she was offered a large sum of money
if she would reveal the secrets of how Robert Gordon
so successfully operated in the market. She told them
frankly that she knew nothing about how he did it,
but if she did know, no amount of money would induce
her to turn traitor to her employer. Edna made up
her mind that when she reached the office the following
morning, she would tell Mr. Gordon just what had happened. Upon reaching the office unusually early she
found Mr. Gordon there. He seemed unusually happy
and she thought that he must have news of Marie. Before she had time to tell him what had happened the
night before, he called her into his secret office, the room
that she had never seen before. There she saw all kinds
of strange instruments which she knew must be some of
his new inventions. He took her to a little machine in
the corner of the room and showed her some peculiar
lines that the machine had recorded on the paper the
night before. He told her that his machine received
the impressions of people's minds and recorded their

231
thoughts, especially when they were greatly excited or
interested in any matter. He read to her from the
record on the machine in substance exactly what had
been said to her the night before. Then he turned to
the Bible and showed her where it said "Everything
that is concealed will be revealed, and everything that is
covered will be uncovered." Edna was more excited
than she had ever been in her life. She knew that the
machine had revealed the truth. Then said to Mr.
Gordon that she had intended to tell him that morning
just what had happened and hoped that he would believe
that she was loyal to him and had refused to accept a
bribe. He then showed her another record on the machine like a phonograph record which would record
people's thoughts and told her that it indicated just what
she had been thinking about. The machine had read
her mind and recorded her thoughts. He assured her
that he did believe her and trust her. Edna was moved
to tears at this great confidence. She knew that never
before had she been permitted to see this secret room
and while she knew of Robert's great love for Marie, she
felt that this confidence he had placed in her was more
than a matter of business confidence and that he had
some love for her. She had always admired him but
had never thought of loving him. Now she knew that
she did love him.
A few days later Edna had a talk with Walter, because she had known him before Robert came to New
York and it was thru his influence she had secured the
position. She told him what had happened and confided in him her love for Robert. He was happy to

232
know this and hoped that Robert would fall in love with
her as he believed it would be best for him. Walter
said, "I am not an expert judge of how emotions work
in men and women, but the way for you to find out how
Robert feels toward you is to watch his actions, make
notes of how often he speaks of Marie, of the letters he
writes trying to find her. Continue to be as nice and
kind toward him as you have always been. If in a
few months his interest in the search for Marie wanes,
and he ceases to talk about her, it will be a sure sign that
his mind and heart is turning toward you."
Soon after Walter graduated, Robert called Miss
Quinton into his secret office one morning and told her
he was going to form a new firm under the name of
"Gordon, Kennelworth & Quinton" and that Edna was
to have an interest in the firm, as reward for her faithful service. She was to help with the work on the secret
discoveries. Edna was overjoyed at this and her emotions got the best of her judgment. She flung her arms
around Robert's neck, kissed him, told him he was the
most wonderful man in the world and that she loved
him. He drew himself quickly away from her, sat down
in a chair and stared out the window for several minutes before he spoke. Then he turned toward Miss
Quinton, faced her with a firm but kind face, told her
that she had made a mistake in his actions, that he was
rewarding her for faithfulness and that there was no
sentiment in the matter, that he did not love her, that
he was loyal to his long-lost Marie and would never love
anyone else. Edna hardly knew what to say. She
begged his forgiveness and tendered her resignation.

233
He told her that he would refuse to accept it; that they
would go right on and work together just the same as in
the past, if she felt that she could and wanted to. She
assured him that she wanted to remain as long as he
wanted her, and that in the future she would always
control her emotions.
Walter Kennelworth had completed a special course
in chemistry at college and was now prepared for work
in the new firm. His father had been following Robert
in the market during the past year and had made a large
amount of money. He presented Walter with $100,000.00, part of the profits which he had made out of
the market, with the understanding that the money was
to be used in helping to further Robert's inventions.
In the Fall of 1928, Robert and Walter completed
an invention of Sun-mirrors, whereby they were able to
collect the rays from the sun and produce heat powerful enough to melt down skyscrapers in a few minutes.
With these mirrors and the aid of electricity, they discovered a powerful light ray Robert knew that this was
going to be of great value in the coming war. They
named this machine "The Demon of Death." Miss
Quinton had been very much interested in this machine
during the course of construction, and she named it
"Spit-Fire" because it could send forth such powerful
sparks of fire, destroying instantly any metal that it
touched. They held a conference and agreed that this
new discovery must be kept secret and should never be
used except in the defense of the United States in time
of war and only then if our country was in dire peril
and unable to cope with the enemy. There was one

234
secret connected with the machine that only Robert
knew. They intended to start to build a giant airship
in a short time equipped with "The Demon of Death."
They figured it would send a powerful death ray 3000
to 5000 miles through space, destroying everything
within a radius of 700 miles. Work was started on the
new machine with all secrecy. It had already been
christened "Marie the Angel of Mercy."
Robert and Walter were making money rapidly in the
cotton market. The war clouds were gathering and
Europe was buying cotton. It had had a big advance
and they were playing the fast moves up and down,
both on the buying and selling sides. There is an old
saying that intimacy breeds contempt, but it did not
prove so with Walter Kennelworth and Edna Quinton.
One beautiful morning in early September, 1928, Robert Gordon stepped into the laboratory and found Edna
in the arms of Walter. He made a hasty exit, but Walter and Edna knew that they had been caught. Robert
was very happy at this discovery because he knew that
it was just the thing Walter needed to stimulate his
ambitions and give him something to work for. He
realized what a wonderful woman Miss Quinton was,
and that she, too, needed inspiration that love alone
could give. That evening he invited Walter to dinner
with him and when they were alone said, "Well, Walter,
the love bug has got you at last." Walter was bashful
at first and didn't want to talk much about it; then he
admitted that it had come on very suddenly when he
and Edna had realized that they were both in love with
each other. Robert told him that it was inevitable and

235
that now was the time it should start and that it would
be better for both of them. They were business partners and it would make them more happy and successful in their work. Walter asked him if he still had
hopes of finding Marie. Robert told him that he did -that he would never give up the search.
Everything moved along smoothly after this. Walter
and Edna were happy in their work and the Fall of 1928
rewarded them with a new and wonderful discovery.
They had been able to perfect a machine which would
reflect light in such a way as to make an airplane invisible and this, together with Robert's noiseless invention, solved the problem. He knew now that in time of
war, the plane could be used to sneak upon the enemy
and that they would be unable to see or hear it. After
holding a conference, they decided that this invention,
as well as "The Demon of Death" should not be patented
or offered for sale to any Government, that they would
test it out and keep it a secret. Here Robert's great
generosity showed itself again when he decided that
this invention should be used in time of greatest need for
the benefit of the United States. Walter said, "Robert,
love indeed does make a great man, makes him unselfish,
causes him to think of his country, of his mother, his
sweetheart and everything else before himself. No
wonder you are making a success and always will, because you are doing right."
The completion of the great machine, "The Demon
of Death," which Robert had worked on untiringly day
and night, was a great triumph for him, but his wonderful energy had been exhausted. Walter had noticed

236
before the machine was completed that Robert looked
tired and worn. His mind lacked its old-time quickness
and he feared for his health. Robert began to reach the
office late and ceased to take an interest in his work.
He was moody and despondent. Thanksgiving Day,
Walter and Edna arranged a big dinner and invited
Robert. He appeared very much worn and ate very little
dinner. Both Walter and Edna noticed that he was
less talkative than ever before. About an hour after
dinner was over Robert fell in a faint. A doctor was
called immediately and after making a careful examination pronounced it a case of nervous breakdown. Said
there must be something preying on his mind or that
he had been under a long strain. Walter explained the
disappearance of Marie and how Robert had worried
over the love affair; his long, strenuous campaigns in
the stock and commodity markets and his work upon
his inventions; that up to a few months previous Robert
had been able to work almost day and night without
showing any fatigue, but that in recent weeks he had
noticed a great change in him. After the doctor had
heard the story of the love affair and Marie's disappearance, he was sure that a long and needed rest was
necessary to restore Robert to his normal health. He
ordered him to remain absolutely quiet and not attempt to look after any of the details of his business.
A few days later Walter persuaded Robert to go to Atlantic City, which he did, and after remaining there and
resting a couple of weeks, he returned apparently well
and showed his old-time strength and vigor. Was
anxious to get back to work and look after his speculative deals in the market.

237
CHAPTER XX

AS the end of 1928 neared, war was already raging
in Europe. England and Russia had already
gone to war as Robert had predicted. Complications
were developing quick and fast and war clouds were
gathering. Robert knew that it was only a question of
a short time when the United States with all of its gold
supply, would be attacked and there would be a great
battle in the air. Great progress had been made in aviation. Airplanes were carrying mail at the rate of 300
miles per hour. Passenger lines were now starting all
over the United States. "Marie the Angel of Mercy,"
Robert's great ship, was rapidly nearing completion.
The new 12-cylinder motor had been tested and the
engineers had estimated that they would attain a speed
of 1000 miles per hour. Robert was elated over the
success and knew that he would now be prepared to
help his country in time of its greatest need. He had
been working early and late and the interest in his work
had kept his mind off Marie. Yet not a day passed
but what he made some inquiries or had his detectives
chase some clew which he hoped would lead to the discovery of Marie, but all efforts were in vain. No news
had ever been heard of her.
With the great progress in radio messages thru the
air, and radiograms, Robert knew that in time of war,

238
secret communications would be necessary. Spies could
steal codes, and messages sent over the radio could be
interpreted; therefore, one of the great needs for the war
in the air would be a way to communicate without detection. He finally succeeded in completing what he
called "The Pocket Radio." It was no larger than a
watch and worked on the same principle of his machine
for recording the thoughts of people, only the instrument had to be used by two people who understood how
to work it, because the positive radio was carried in
one man's pocket and the negative in the other and by
pressing the stem, it could be changed from positive into
negative. No sound was transmitted thru the air. The
machine could be operated by certain motions of the
fingers on a little push button which recorded symbols
on the other machine that would reveal the message
sent. The Pocket Radio made it possible to convey
any message without any possibility of detection because only the person sending the message and the one
receiving it could understand or know anything about
it. This was better than wireless or any other radio
discovery up to this time. Robert tested the machine
out by leaving one instrument in Walter's pocket, he
himself going to Chicago and conveying messages which
Walter was able to get without any trouble. He could
either speak into this little Pocket Radio and convey
the sound without anyone else being able to take it from
the air, or use it to convey thoughts or emotions. The
test proved perfect and Robert knew that he had another
great discovery which would be of great value to his
Government in time of war. He decided to keep this a

239
secret and have it ready to aid the United States at a
time when they would need it most.
Robert figured that there would be a big bull campaign in cotton during 1929 so he had started buying
early in the year, expecting a big advance later. He
had also forecast the rapid advance of certain classes
of stocks. During 1928 he had closed a successful bear
campaign in Major Motors and was still holding his
Right Aeroplane stock, which had continued to advance,
and he figured that it would have a big rise during 1929.
His fortune was piling up rapidly, despite all the money
he was spending on his new inventions. The new ship
"Marie, the Angel of Mercy," was now about perfected,
but Robert intended that this should never be made
known to the public until he had it in perfect working
order and it was a success beyond doubt.
After preparing his campaign for the market and
buying stocks and cotton for the big advance, Walter
noticed a great change in Robert. His health began to
fail again, and now that he had achieved great success
and completed such wonderful inventions, without
Marie to comfort him he would probably break down in
health and give up. Robert had ceased to talk much
about Marie. His interest in the future was waning.
Walter and Edna, who were still as much in love as
ever, often discussed Robert's physical condition. They
decided to encourage him to go away for a long-needed
rest. Walter had a talk with Robert in the middle of
January, 1929, but Robert didn't show much interest
or any desire to travel. A short time after this, Robert
appeared at the office one morning looking more haggard

240
and worn than ever. He called Walter and Edna into
the office, told them that he had had a very peculiar
dream the night before, that he had dreamed that he had
gone to Paris and suddenly met Marie. He was so
strongly impressed with the dream that he decided to
leave at once. Told Walter to give the mechanics instructions to put his old ship "The St. Marie" in shape
to sail at once.
It was a matter of only a couple of days until they
reported that "The St. Marie" was in perfect shape and
could stand a trip around the world. There was to be
a great convention of all the nations on aviation in Paris
and Robert decided that he wanted to be there for it, but
the main incentive for the trip was his dream. Robert
had no trouble in securing letters of introduction to
prominent people in London and Paris. When he said
good-bye to Walter and Edna, they wished him Godspeed, told him that they hoped his dream would become a reality and that he would find Marie, but they
knew that he was not the same Robert of old. He acted
as tho his spirit was broken. On the morning of February 2nd, 1929, Robert started his flight to Paris and
arrived there promptly in the evening and went to visit
some friends and acquaintances. After talking over
the war situation and his forecasts of the great war yet
to come, he decided to visit friends in London. England
and Russia were waging their battles in the air and
doing very little land fighting. Despite the good start
that England had made, Russia and her allies were getting the best of the victory. Robert found London very
uninteresting. Up to this time he had heard nothing of
Marie and decided to return to Paris.

241
On a beautiful sunhiny morning in the latter part of
Feburary, 1929, Robert was walking down a prominent
business street in Paris with no special objective in
mind. He was feeling sick and gloomy and was walking
with his head down, looking at the street. Suddenly he
saw a form approaching very closely, and like a flash,
a woman quickly passed him. He was sure it was
Marie. His heart was in his throat. He turned around
quickly to follow her but she had disappeared. Just as
she passed him she dropped a letter on the street and he
picked it up, put it in his pocket and rushed on down
the street, hoping to find her, but after exhausting himself running around, fighting his way thru the crowds,
without a glimpse of her, he decided to open the letter.
When he opened it it was written in a foreign language
which he did not understand. He was not sure whether
it was Marie's handwriting or not. His first thought
was to go immediately to an interpreter and have the
letter read. On second thought, he decided that it might
be something confidential and that he would go to an
old friend who lived in Paris and ask him to interpret
the letter. Robert called on Louis Renan, stated the circumstance of his meeting Marie on the street and told
him about the letter she dropped. His friend gladly
consented to read the letter. Robert handed it to him
and he glanced over it; handed it back to Robert without
a word, told him to get out of his house immediately and
never darken the door again. Robert begged for an
explanation but in vain. His friend was angry and
determined and pushed Robert out of the door. Robert
walked slowly back to his hotel, disappointed, mystified,
and heart-broken. What could be the meaning of this

242
letter? Why should his friend offer no explanation as
to what it contained? Had he really met Marie and was
the letter from her? One thing he knew, he must find
out what this mysterious letter contained. He decided
the next best plan was to go to an interpreter, so he
inquired at the hotel the name of an interpreter and was
informed where he could get any language interpreted.
He called at the address, explained his mission to the
manager and turned over the letter. In a few minutes
the manager returned, handed him the letter, told him
there was the door, please get out and ask no questions.
Robert again begged for some explanation but the man
was defiant and refused to make any comment.
Robert returned to his hotel to think matters over.
He bought a paper and looked over the news from New
York and market reports. He saw that cotton and stocks
were advancing as he expected, but money-making now
was of no interest to him when he at last thought that
he had found where Marie was. He decided to place
a personal notice in all the papers in Paris, telling Marie
that he had passed her on the street, had found the letter, was unable to get it interpreted, and beg her to
communicate with him at once. He placed the notice in
the papers that afternoon. Received an invitation from
some acquaintances in Paris to dine with them and go
to a ball. He wanted to refuse the invitation because he
did not feel equal to the occasion, but they insisted that
it would do him good and begged him to come along.
Robert had been so disappointed about the mysterious
letter and the sudden loss of Marie after he had seen
her, that he decided to say nothing about the incident

243
to his friends. After dinner was over, they chatted with
Robert, and he seemed more cheerful. They told Robert
of the Aviators' Costume Ball to take place in the Hotel
Lafayette that night and asked him to go along. Robert tried to beg off and made the excuse that he had no
costume for this occasion, but they told him that they
had already ordered one for him and there was no getting out of it -- he had to go, so finally he consented.
When they arrived at the hotel and entered the ballroom, Robert's friends, who knew of his great fame in
New York and his success in speculative markets, were
anxious to introduce him to the prominent men and
women of Paris. Aviators were there from all over the
world. They had come for the great convention. Each
country was competing for the grand prize for the most
efficient airplane and the best one suited for war purposes. They asked Robert if he did not have a plane to
enter or if he could not demonstrate something with
"The St. Marie." He told them that his health was
not good and that he was not interested in entering a
plane at this time. The ballroom was decorated with
everything connected with airplanes. Miniature planes
were flying around the room, circling up and down from
the ceilings. It was a gorgeous display and while it was
dazzling to others, Robert paid very little attention to
it. His friends, in order to please him and get him
interested, had the radio tuned into New York and were
getting music from the Biltmore. The dance started.
Robert watched but was very little interested. His
friends invited him to dance but he refused. He had
no thoughts of anything but Marie. As he was sitting,

244
watching the dancers whirl around the floor, suddenly
he looked across the hall and again he saw Marie dressed
like an eagle, queen of the air. He made a mad rush
thru the crowd to the other side of the hall and when
he got there, he could see no Marie. The ordeal was
too much for him. He fell unconscious on the floor.
Friends rushed to his assistance and after reviving him,
he explained to them that he had seen Marie again and
asked them to find her and bring her to him. After
investigation, they told him that there was no one there
by that name and that none of the ladies had left the
ballroom. They brought them all before him and introduced him, but Marie was not among them. Robert
was not only sick at heart but sick physically, and his
friends realized it and called a nerve specialist, Dr.
Descartes. Robert explained what had happened, about
meeting Marie on the street and about seeing her at the
ball, altho he said nothing about the mysterious letter
to the Doctor. The Doctor, after examining him, told
his friends he thought that he was suffering from mental
delusions -- that he had probably had this woman on his
mind so long and after dreaming he had met her on a
street in Paris, had hoped so strongly that he would
meet her, he had brought himself to believe that she was
there and had really thought that he had seen her, both
on the street and in the ballroom, but it was probably an
optical delusion and after he got better he would realize
that he hadn't seen Marie.
Several days passed before Robert fully recovered.
In the meantime, he had become quite friendly with
Dr. Descartes and told him a great deal about his his-

245
tory. The Doctor was very much interested and had
a great desire to help him. Robert finally decided to
confide in him about the mysterious letter. The Doctor
had a brother in New York and was going to give Robert
a letter of introduction to him upon his return. While
they were on the subject of the letter of introduction,
Robert told him about the mysterious letter and the
Doctor agreed to get a friend of his who could interpret
it, to read the letter for him. Robert was very happy
because he thought that if he could get the meaning of
the letter it would throw some light on what the trouble
was with Marie. While he had been sick, his mind had
wandered and he had imagined all kinds of things, and
for a few moments, doubted Marie. He even thought
that she might have turned out to be a bad woman and
was now in Paris, having a gay time, but as soon as
his mind returned to its normal state, his old faith in
Marie returned, and he loved her as of old and believed
that she could do no wrong.
The next day Dr. Descartes called, took Robert with
him in his car to his friend who was an interpreter.
Robert handed him the letter and, after looking it over,
he handed the letter back to Robert, turned to the
Doctor, and said, "Have you no more respect for my
friendship than to insult me in a manner like this. Begone, and never let me see you in my house again."
The Doctor begged for an explanation and Robert offered his apologies, saying it was all his fault and the
Doctor was only trying to aid him, but the man refused
to discuss the matter and they hurried away. When
they got in the car, Dr. Descartes knew that the shock

246
was too much for Robert so he drove him immediately
to the hotel without discussing the mysterious letter.
After he had gotten him in his room and made him comfortable, he begged Robert not to worry about the letter,
told him that he would think the matter over and call
and see him the next day.
Robert was very much worried. His hope was fast
giving way to despair. He again realized that hope
deferred maketh the heart grow sick. He thought of
Henry Watson's story and wondered if he would have
to go thru life and die without ever again seeing Marie.
Dr. Descartes called the following day and was very
solicitous of Robert's welfare. Told him to forget the
incident about the letter and advised Robert to try to
get it interpreted when he returned to New York. Robert told him more about Marie's disappearance and
showed him the note that Marie had placed in his pocket
on the train to St. Louis. The Doctor read it and said
it certainly left room for hope, and while it was mysterious, he felt that Marie fully intended at some time
to come back to him. Robert had received no reply
to his personal notices in the Paris newspapers and decided to return to New York in a few days.
In the early part of March a lot of the aviators were
returning from Paris to New York after the convention
and Robert decided to go home with them. They insisted that he was not physically able to sail "The St.
Marie" alone and sent a pilot along with him. The trip
was uneventful and on March 5th Robert arrived in
New York. On his arrival he went immediately to his
office and laboratories where he found Walter and Edna

247
glad to see him. They told him that he looked much
improved in health. He related all his experiences in
Paris and the mysterious letter. Walter was very much
amazed and at a loss to understand it all. He could not
understand, if Marie had dropped the letter and
had really seen Robert on the street and at the ball,
why she would not answer his personal notices in the
papers and at least clear up the mystery of her disappearance. Robert decided to go immediately to an interpreter in New York and see if he could get the mysterious letter read. After handing it to the man who
spoke about ten different languages, the interpreter
handed it back to him and stated in a firm, gentlemanlike manner that he would like him to please leave the
office immediately and never return. Robert went at
once to his office and told Walter and Edna what had
happened. They talked it over and advanced all kinds
of theories about what the letter might contain, and
asked Robert if any of the interpreters had ever given
any information or stated whether they could read the
letter or not. Robert told them they had not. Edna
thought that probably the letter contained a message to
the interpreter not to give any information or to reveal
what it contained to Robert or anyone else. Walter
thought if this were the case, that some of the interpreters
who seemed to be insulted by it, would have immediately
destroyed the letter instead of handing it back to him.
The more theories they advanced, the less plausible the
mystery seemed. Robert decided to write to a famous astrologer in Canada whom he had heard of. He sent
along his date of birth, telling him the history of the

248
case, to see if he could give him any light on the subject,
telling the astrologer that he would pay $50,000.00 or
more if necessary, if he could solve the problem and tell
him what the letter contained and how to get it interpreted or give him any information leading to the whereabouts of Marie. The astrologer answered as follows
after making the calculation from Robert's date of
birth:
While it is a very peculiar case, the events were not accidents at all but the result of Natural Law. The young lady
still lives and I believe will again come into your life three
or four years later. The great trouble was that on the day
she disappeared, Mercury, your ruling planet, applied to
an evil aspect of Uranus, the great eccentric, revolutionary,
mysterious planet, and this indicated disappointment, trouble
and delays, over letters or writings and the letters would be
mysterious and hard to understand. In view of the fact that
Jupiter, Mars, and Mercury, as well as Venus, were all changing signs just around the time she disappeared, it meant that
there would be many changes and long delays before the
mystery would be solved, that there was great danger of letters being lost or miscarried, and that it was possible that
she may have written you letters which never reached you.
Neptune has much to do with the sea and its mysteries and as
it strongly influences the city of Paris, her appearance there
would be shrouded in mystery and there would be much that
could not be explained. It is very doubtful if you will get any
explanation or interpretation of the mysterious letter. There
is something visionary about it, or the appearance of Marie
may have been a spiritual apparition.
If you will visit cities near beautiful watering places in the
South or Southwest, and could come in contact with an honest
spiritualist or clairvoyant, it may be of some benefit and help
in some way to solve the mystery. In view of the condition

249
of your health and the planet Saturn is afflicting you, it
would be advisable to spend the balance of the Winter and
early part of the Spring in a tropical climate. Florida would
be especially good for you and might bring favorable results
in more ways than one. If you will give me time to figure
on your horoscope and have patience I will guarantee to tell
you the time that you will find Marie. The progressed Mars
is traveling toward a conjunction of Venus, the Goddess of
Love, and when this is completed she will probably come back
into your life.

250
CHAPTER XXI

ROBERT was very much encouraged by this letter
because he had great confidence in Astrology and
in this man's ability. He decided to go immediately
to Florida for a rest and visit all the beautiful spots
and watering places that he could find, hoping to get
some news of Marie. Going directly to Palm Beach,
Florida, he met some friends of Conan Doyle's who
were very much interested in spiritualism. They told
him that a famous spiritualist, Lady Bersford from
England, had been there, and that they believed she
could help solve the problem. Robert asked where he
could find her and was told that she had gone to Ocala,
Florida, to visit Silver Springs and investigate the
legend of Silver Springs, the story about a beautiful
young girl who drowned herself in the Springs.
A LEGEND
(The following story combines the accuracies of fact
with the romance of fiction. Aunt Silly lived at Silver
Springs until her death, about sixteen years ago, and
was seen by many who visited the Springs. It is from
the gifted pen of Mrs. Maley Bainbridge Crist):
Near Florida's celebrated Silver Springs lives an old negress,
known to the entire surrounding country as "Aunt Silly,"
whose claim to being 110 years old is borne out by her ap-

251
pearance. Aunt Silly is wrinkled and decrepit, and the wool
peeping from her bandanaed head is white as snow, while the
blackness and weirdness of her face is intensified by a heavy
crop of snow-white beard. As long as the oldest citizen of
Ocala can remember Aunt Silly has looked just as ancient as
she does now; identified always with Silver Springs, and
hobbling about them from morning until night, leaning upon
her short, thick staff.
That she was a participant in a tragedy is known only to a
very few of Ocala's oldest citizens, and seldom referred to by
any of them. In the near vicinity of Ocala, when first it was
settled, stood a splendid old mansion owned by Capt. Harding
Douglass, a South Carolinian of considerable wealth. His only
child was a son, who, with his mother's beauty of countenance,
had inherited her tender, shrinking nature, and, like herself,
was a slave to the old man's iron will. In the beautiful little
City of Ocala lived Bernice Mayo, whose blond beauty won,
at first sight, the heart of Claire Douglass. Although of Virginia ancestry, Bernice was a true child of the "Land of
Flowers," passionate and impulsive. Her eyes were blue and
clear as the waters of Lake Munroe, beside which she had
spent her childhood, in the fair little City of Sanford. Her
hair was as golden as Florida's own sunshine, and Florida's
tropical splendor ran riot in her blood. For six months Bernice Mayo and Claire Douglass were constant companions, and
Silver Springs was their favorite resort. For half a day at
a time they would drift about on the bosom of the splendid,
placid curiosity of nature.
Bernice seemed never to tire of going into the depths of the
subterranean world. "If I were a mermaid, Claire," she would
say, "and lived in yon crystal cavern, and some fair day I
should wander forth among the palmettos and mosses of the
springs, and, sitting on yonder ledge of rocks, should 'comb
my golden hair with a shell,' and your boat should come drifting by, and you were to see me in the water beneath, would
you love me well enough to plunge, plunge to the depths beneath to woo me?" Then would Claire stop her merry chatter

252
with his kisses, and pledge to her his eternal love as they
drifted over the transparent mirror of water, pausing now
and then to study the rocks and shells, the mosses, palmettos,
the fish, which were as visible eighty feet below the transparent water as were the trees and woodland about them.
There is nothing fairer than Ocala's "Lover's Lane," and yet
no spot held for these young people the attraction of Silver
Springs, their constant trysting place. But there came a fatal
day, destined to separate them. A day wherein Claire Douglass declared to his father his love for beautiful, penniless
Bernice Mayo, and his determination to make her his wife.
Stormily, his father vowed it should never be, and secretly
planned a separation.
When Claire Douglass had been speedily dispatched abroad
on important business for his father, then it was that Bernice
learned the truth, and her proud, delicate nature lay crushed
and bleeding beneath the cruel blow and still more cruel separation.
Vainly she strove to rally; all life seemed but an empty
blank to her. A year dragged wearily by, and the scenes frequented by merry Bernice Mayo knew her no more. Paler
and thinner she daily grew. Fragile, she was, as the white
blossoms of her well-loved springs. The little chain of gold
that Claire had locked on her arm would have slipped across
the wasted, transparent hand, but for the ribbon that held its
links. One day (her last upon earth) the girl, by dint of
desperate energy, crept to Silver Springs. Even Aunt Silly
was unprepared for the white, emaciated little creature who
tottered into her cabin and fell fainting in her arms. Consciousness soon returned, but it was apparent even to the old
black woman that death had set its gray, unmistakable seal
upon the young face.
"Aunt Silly," gasped the girl, "I have come to you to die,
and you must obey my last request; the grave divulges no
secrets. Ere tonight's sun sets I shall be in heaven. This
separation from the man I love has been my death, but in that
death we shall be united. I have asked God, and He has heard

253
me. But you, Aunt Silly, you must obey my request. You love
me; you will do as I ask. Tonight when the moon comes out,
row my bodv to Boiling Springs, and bury me there. You
know the spot -- make no mistake. Do this, and God will attend
to the rest."
"Good Gord A'mighty, chile, you think Aunt Silly am gwine
tote dade body off in the lonesomely night?" asked the old
woman, her very teeth chattering with the superstitious fear
peculiar to her race. The girl realized the risk of her plan
being thwarted, and raising herself to a sitting posture she
seized the old woman's hands and fixed her dying eyes full
on her face.
"Aunt Silly," she gasped, "I am a dying woman; I am very
near to God; I have talked with Him, and He has answered
me. My will has been crushed in life, I swear it shall not in
death. Before twenty-four hours Claire Douglass shall join
me in the crystal cavern of Silver Springs. If you do not
grant my request every spirit of evil shall surround you.
Palsied and blind you shall grow, and deaf -- deaf to every
sound but the ghosts of the dead, which shall pursue you by
day and haunt you by night. Do you swear to obey my dying
request, or will you refuse me, and reap the prophecy of a
dying woman, which shall rest upon your cowardly head for
refusing to obey God's will?"
The old woman was shaking like an aspen. Her eyes protruded with fear, and great beads of perspiration rolled down
her cheeks. The strength of the dying girl's will had prevailed, and the old woman answered: "I promises, honey; I
promises."
It was a solemn and awful sight that night, witnessed alone
by God and nature; the boat, which drifted down Silver
Springs in the moonlight, bearing its two strange occupants -the one weird, bent, grotesque; the other, so silent, so white,
so pathetic, in its dead loveliness. Not a leaf was stirring,
not a sound heard, but the splash, splash of the old woman's
oars, as her boat, with its strange, beautiful burden, drifted
over the curious, transparent body of water; drifted until it

254
reached Boiling Springs, then veered about and stood still.
Gently and easily, as if it had been a babe, the old woman
lifted the little body. Something of her fear had departed
in the placid smile of the dead face. Tears rolled down her
dusky face as she bent forward in obedience to the girl's curious request. For a moment the body rocked to and fro on
the bosom of the water, upon which its happiest moments had
been spent. The dead face smiled, and the wealth of hair
gleamed in the moonlight like a sheen of gold. Every pebble
was visible in the depths below. Suddenly, as if by magic,
the body began sinking. The boiling of the spring had ceased,
showing a peculiar little fissure in the rock from whence all
the strange body of water came. The fissure slowly divided,
received the dead body and closed again, shutting every vestige
of it from view.
"Gord A'mighty, dat chile a angel sho' nuff. She mus'
done talked to de Lawd; she knowed how all dat gwine to be,"
muttered the old woman, as she rowed back to her cabin in the
moonlight.
A mocking-bird on the opposite shore sent forth a flood of
silvery melody. "Hear dat now," muttered Aunt Silly; "dat
bird done sendin' forth de weddin' song o' de bridegroom.
Come on, Claire Douglass, yo' little bride am waitin' for you
more pacifyin' den she waited many a long day."
The day following the death of Bernice Mayo was one
never to be forgotten by the citizens of Ocala. Claire Douglass had just returned after a year's absence. He found his
beautiful cousin (whom his father desired to become his wife)
a guest at the home of his parents.
"Claire," said his father as they lingered over the breakfast table, "I have a fine, new skiff at Silver Springs, and I
wish you to take your cousin for a row this morning; and,
by the permission of you young people, I shall make one of
your party."
"Delightful, uncle," cried the girl; and Claire, while he
turned a trifle pale at the thought of returning to the spot

255
where all that had given color to his life had transpired,
could only acquiesce.
Claire Douglass looked unusually handsome as the party
drifted down Silver Springs in the April sunshine, but there
was a curious pallor on his face, and the uncle and niece were
left to carry on all the conversation. What a contrast the
blooming girl in April sunshine bore to the one in the solemn
moonlight, who had drifted over the same water the evening
before! As the skiff neared Boiling Springs the party noted
a little boat hovering over it. The boat was rowed by Aunt
Silly; and its other occupant was an old woman, whose eyes
were swollen with weeping. The skiff paused beside the little
rowboat, and the occupants of each gazed into the curious,
transparent depths below.
Suddenly the niece cried out, "Oh, see, that looks like a
hand; a little human hand!" Plainer and more visible it
grew, the little white hand with its gold chain locked above the
slender wrist. Ah, little band, Claire Douglass would have
known you among ten thousand hands! His face was white
as death and he gasped as though choking. All were intent
upon the scene below. Suddenly the boiling of the water
ceased, and out upon a rock in its transparent depths, like a
broken, beautiful lily, lay Bernice Mayo, her golden hair
floating on the sand, her dead face smiling placidly, as if at
last a halo of peace had descended upon the tired spirit, and
the broken heart had found rest. With a wild cry that pierced
even the heart of the mother, who for the last time in life
gazed upon the dead face of her child, Claire Douglass dashed
overboard, diving deeper, ever deeper, until he caught in his
arms the little figure of his dead love.
Then once more the rock divided and closed, shutting from
view forever the lovers, who lay locked in each other's embrace. And again the water whirled and boiled in its mad
fury, as if to defy the puny will of him who would have
separated what God had joined together.
As for the first time the secret bridal chamber of Silver

256
Springs has been made known to the world, it will be interesting to its future visitors, as they approach that part of it
known as "Boiling Springs," to note in the whir of the water
beneath (the only part of the water not perfectly placid)
the constant shower of tiny, pearl-like shells poured forth
from the fissure in the rock, and which Aunt Silly says are
the jewels the angels gave Bernice Mayo upon her wedding
morning when her lover joined her in their fairy palace in
Silver Springs. There is, too, a curious flower growing in
the springs -- a flower with leaf like a lily, and a blossom
shaped like an orange blossom. Its peculiar waxy whiteness
and yellow petals are like Bernice Mayo's face and hair, Aunt
Silly says, and she calls them "Bernice Bridal Wreath."
There is a legend among the young people of Ocala that a
woman presented with one of these blossoms will become a
bride ere the close of the year.

257
CHAPTER XXII

ROBERT was greatly impressed with this story and 
what they told him about the wonderful powers 
of Lady Bersford. After consulting with his friends,
he decided to go immediately to Silver Springs to see
her. On Sunday morning about 10 o'clock he boarded
a local airplane for Silver Springs and arrived in the
afternoon. It was a fitting setting for the scene. The
day was beautiful, the sunshine at its best. Robert had
watched the plane as it flew swiftly across the country.
He had viewed the many beautiful orange groves and
thought of the wonderful work of the hand of Nature
in painting beauty grander than any hand of man could
ever do. Here he thought of something that he would
write of Marie in contrast to her beauty.
After thoughts of Marie's beauty had flitted thru
Robert's brain and his dream and hope for Marie had
revived, he was feeling hopeful and enthusiastic. Lady
Bersford upon receiving the letter of introduction from
her friends greeted Robert with unusual courtesy. He
told his story. She listened attentively and when he had
finished telling her about the mysterious letter, she said
that there was an interpreter at the hotel who understood most any foreign language and that she was sure
he could interpret the letter. Robert was elated because Lady Bersford showed such a great interest and

258
desire to help him. He related all the obstacles he had
met with in trying to get the letter interpreted before,
and had almost lost hope of ever getting it interpreted.
She assured him that her friendship with the interpreter
would at this time bring results.
Robert was anxious to see Silver Springs and Lady
Bersford was anxious for him to go and see it immediately and said that after their return she would see the
interpreter and get the mysterious letter read. They
went to the Springs and slowly rode out on the beautiful
waters. Robert had heard the story and when the boat
slowly came to a stop over "The Bridal Chamber" and
he saw the face of a beautiful woman in the rocks his
heart almost failed him. He thought of the sorrows
he had gone thru and wondered if such a fate might
have been Marie's. The beautiful waters reflected the
most radiant colors Robert had ever seen in his life.
He secretly prayed the greatest prayer of his life, that
he might meet Marie here and with all of her beauty,
where they could enjoy the beauty of nature together.
When he looked thru the transparent waters into the
bridal chamber, it brought him back to Sunday morning, June 5, 1927, when he had expected to marry
Marie. Tears streamed down his cheeks and Lady Bersford realizing the situation and knowing that she could
say little, remained in silence until Robert's emotions
had passed. Then she told of her admiration for his
love and devotion to Marie and said that a scene like
this, painted by the hand of Nature was calculated to
melt the heart of the most cold-blooded man on earth.
Robert asked the man who was rowing the boat to row

259
back to the place where the face of the spirit bride
showed in the water and as he looked down at the face
again, he thought of Marie and this is what he said:
"Most beautiful face in all the world, best beloved eyes
that inspired the best in me, the days pass by on leaden
wings, when only in memory your dear eyes shine for
me." Somehow the beautiful waters and the scenery
inspired a new hope in Robert, for love must ever inspire hope in man when his faith in a woman keeps
the lovelight burning on the altar of his heart.
Robert and Lady Bersford returned to the hotel.
After dinner, Lady Bersford met Robert and told him
that she had found the interpreter and he had agreed
to read the mysterious letter that evening. Robert,
having met with so many disappointments, felt that he
must make sure this time he would get the letter read.
He met the interpreter, went over the whole story with
him, told him that no matter what the letter contained,
good or bad, he must know the truth and nothing but
the truth. Said he would pay any sum that the interpreter might name, and pay it in advance, if he
would agree to read the letter regardless of what it contained. His plea was so earnest that the interpreter
saw that his heart was breaking and told him that no
amount of money would influence him as much to read
the letter as the desire to relieve an honest, loyal heart
which was breaking for a great love. Such men as he
was our country's need in time of peril and such loyalty
and devotion to a woman was found in but few men;
that it seemed more divine than real, and that he would
interpret the letter gladly and willingly. When Robert

260
was fully assured at this time that there would be no
disappointment, he was supremely happy. He grabbed
the hand of Lady Bersford, thanked her, and fell upon
his knees before the interpreter and thanked him in
advance for his promise to interpret the letter.
"Now let us delay no longer," said the interpreter,
“give me the letter and I will read it." Robert had
always carried the letter in a wallet in his pocket, never
letting it get out of his possession. Had it carefully
folded up in some other papers. He pulled forth the
wallet from his pocket, opened it up and looked for the
letter. It was not there. He searched the wallet carefully but there was no mistake about it. The letter was
gone. The disappointment was another great blow to
him. He talked the matter over with the interpreter
and Lady Bersford and was at a loss to understand how
the letter could have disappeared from his pocket. Was
sure that he had it when he was in Palm Beach. He
telegraphed the hotel in Palm Beach and after making a
search, they reported that they were unable to find the
letter. Lady Bersford realized the keen disappointment
that the loss of this mysterious letter had brought Robert,
so she told him that she would use her spiritual powers
every way possible to solve the mystery of the letter and
try to help him find Marie, and that if he would leave
her alone in silence that night, the following day she
would report to him the information she received.
Robert arose early the next morning and decided that
he would go to Silver Springs and see this beautiful
spot just as the sun was rising. It was a beautiful morning and he rode out upon the waters, listened to the

261
songs of the birds, watched the beautiful fish running
to and fro in the clear waters. He again thought of the
story of the spirit bride whom the legend said appeared
upon the waters on moonlight nights. His mind went
back to the fishing trip at Spirit Lake, Arkansas. He
thought of the story of Spirit Lake and how he was impressed as a child with that story. Now it seemed more
vivid and real. His mind reverted back to the death
of Henry Watson and he thought "Is it my fate to visit
places and to hear stories of tragedy and disappointment of lovers, and in the end, will my fate be like
theirs? Must I sink into the waters of forgetfulness
without ever again seeing the best beloved face in all
the world, Marie's? After all, is it line Henry Watson
said: 'Hope is but an anchor to the soul, but facts
are stubborn things and we must face them?' " For a
moment, Robert felt that he had been clinging to hope
all these years and he was almost ready to bid hope
depart and leave him alone to facts, but even then he
knew that if hope should depart and not hold aloft a
light of Marie's love, he at that moment would follow
the course of the lover of the spirit bride and go overboard, to be swallowed up in the beautiful waters, to
release his spirit, that it might soar away to find Marie.
The man who was rowing the boat, noticed that Robert
had fallen into a death-like silence. He asked him if
he was ready to return. Robert awakened as if by a
shot and said "Yes."

262
CHAPTER XXIII

He drove back to the hotel, found Lady Bersford 
awaiting him.  He ate his breakfast hurriedly 
and retired to a secret corner in the hotel where they
would be alone and he could hear what Lady Bersford
had gathered from the spirit world the night before.
Her first words when he entered the room were, "Mr.
Gordon, I have good news for you and I know that you
can depend on it. Last night a spirit appeared that I
had never seen or heard before. It was an Indian girl,
named 'Laughing Waters,' who said she was the daughter of Chief Okeehumkee who once lived near Silver
Springs and on account of the loss of her lover had
drowned herself in the Springs. At this point Lady
Bersford handed Robert Gordon a booklet on Silver
Springs containing a legend about the death of Laughing Waters. and he read it hastily.
AN INDIAN LEGEND
A long time ago when Okeehumkee was king over the tribes
of Indians who roamed and hunted around the Southwestern
lakes, an event occurred which filled many hearts with horror.
The king had a daughter whose rare beauty was the pride of
the old man's life, and an idol of the braves. She was a
coveted prize. Chiefs and warriors vied with each other as
to who should present the most valuable gift, when her hand
was sought from the king, her father. But the daughter had

263
already seen and loved Chuleotah, the renewed chief of a tribe,
which dwelt among the wild groves of Silver Springs. But
it was a sad truth that between the old chief and the young
chief, and their tribes, there had long been a deadly feud.
They were enemies. When Okeehumkee learned that Chuleotah had gained the affections of his beloved child, not many
weeks passed away before the noble Chuleotah was slain. Slain,
too, by the father. Dead! Her lover dead! Poor child.
Will she return to the paternal lodge and dwell among her
people while her father's hand is stained with the drippings
of her lover's scalp? No. She hurries away to the wellknown fountain. It was a favorite spot, where herself and
Chuleotah met on the glassy bottom of the Springs. The
pale ghost of Chuleotah stands beckoning her to come. All
was still save the night winds that sighed and moaned thru
the lofty pines. Then came the girl to the side of the Springs.
For a moment she paused upon the edge of the Springs, then
met her palms above her head, and, with a wild leap, she fell
into the whelming waves. She had gone to one of those
enchanted isles, far out in the Western Seas, where the maiden
and her lover are united, and where both have found another
Silver Springs.
Lady Bersford said that Laughing Waters' spirit
told her that after she drowned herself and her spirit
was released, she had been very happy in finding others
who met disappointment in love and helping to relieve
their sufferings and bring about an understanding and
reunite the separated. Laughing Waters said: "Marie
is still alive and for mysterious reasons is keeping in
hiding from her parents and everyone else, but her love
is as strong as the Rock of Gibraltar, and she will keep
her promise to return to Robert when he needs her
most. It was the spirit of Marie that Robert saw on the

264
streets in Paris. Marie was not there and never had
been, but Robert loved her so much and longed for her
until Marie's spirit, which had always been closely in
touch with Robert, was able to leave her body and appear to comfort him. It was Marie’s spirit he saw at
the ballroom. She was not there at all. It occurred
because Robert needed some hope and encouragement
to go on and wait until the proper time when Marie
would return to him. The mysterious letter never existed. It was a delusion and a power of the subconscious mind. This power is known and understood by
the adepts of India. Some of my tribe knew how to
project the subconscious mind, or spirit, as some called
it, anywhere they desired. Robert's subconscious mind
had received impressions so long and he had hoped and
desired so long for a letter from Marie, that when her
spirit appeared he expected a message, a letter, or some
communication, and he really thought she dropped a
letter. This power so strongly impressed the subconscious mind that he was able to make other people feel,
believe and see the letter, but of course they could not
read or interpret it, because there was no letter or written message and that is why they all acted so strangely
about it. When Robert at last met you, a spiritualist
and an unselfish woman, and the interpreter, an honest,
unselfish man refusing to accept any amount of money
to read the mysterious letter, I knew that no letter ever
existed and removed the impression from Robert's subconscious mind and when he went to look for the letter,
of course it was not there, and never was because it
only existed in his subconscious mind."

265
After this, Robert was much more cheerful and hopeful. His own mind told him that he was at last on the
right track. He thought of the laws laid down in the
Bible; remembered what Jesus said when they asked
him for a sign that the Son of man would remain three
days and three nights in the heart of the earth, then
rise and ascend to heaven. Robert knew the meaning
of this. He knew that sorrows, sufferings and disappointment had to come before joy and happiness; for
every day of sunshine comes a night of darkness, for
every aching in the heart there is a returning flow.
That all the laws of Nature taught the eternal law of
action and reaction. He took great comfort in this;
knew that the promise was laid down in the Bible of
great reward for love and faithfulness and he felt very
happy because he believed "Laughing Waters'" story
that Marie would come into his life again.
Robert remained a few days longer at Silver Springs.
Enjoyed being with Lady Bersford and told her of his
understanding of the Bible and natural laws. She said
that the pure, clean life he had led was what had
brought him in contact with the spirits that had revealed to him the truth. Many seances were held with
"Laughing Waters," who was very fond of Robert and
anxious to help him all she could. She said that Robert
had a love the same as she had, that he had rather die
than give up Marie, but that he would attain the greatest honor of any man on earth except Jesus Christ, because he was following the law of love and that law
would bring to him his own Marie and he would spend
many happy years with her. She told him that the

266
great Chief whose spirit was with her, had confirmed all
she had told them.
When Robert prepared to depart from Silver Springs,
his heart was filled with gratitude, for Lady Bersford
and all she had done for him. He wanted to pay her
for her services and if she would name the amount, he
would write a check for it. She explained that she was
a very wealthy woman, with a large estate in England;
that she had gone into this work at the solicitation of
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, for the good that she could do
for others and not for any monetary consideration. Her
reward for being unselfish and trying to help him was
his appreciation, she said. This attitude on the part of
Lady Bersford was a great comfort to Robert and gave
him more faith in the Bible. He knew that the law
that "whatsoever a man soweth, he shall also reap" was
a divine law and a natural law, that no man could break
it or evade it, and that his reward was just as sure as
the law was inevitable. He had read Emerson's "Essay
on Compensation," and strongly believed that. He said
to Lady Bersford, "Your reward is sure, because you
are doing right, giving out the best you can to help
others, and only good will return to you."
Lady Bersford said, "Thank you very much, Mr.
Gordon, I have enjoyed our visits and hope that we
will meet again some time. May I ask where you are
going from here?" "I am going direct to New York
as I have important business matters to look after
there," he replied. "Mr. Gordon, you don't look
strong," she said. "It seems to me you need to take
more care of your health and have more rest. I am

267
going from here to Sebring, Florida. Have heard so
many stories of this wonderful place that I want to
go there to recoup my health." "Is it a health resort?"
asked Robert. Lady Bersford said, "I understand there
is a sunshine sanitarium there. They teach you how
to eat and play. The water is the finest in the State
of Florida; in fact, one of the few places in Florida
where you can get good drinking water. The climate is
ideal. Lake Jackson, one of the most beautiful lakes
in the State is near there, as well as many others. I am
told the fishing and boating is fine. The Kissimmee
River is near there. This beautiful river is associated
with songs and stories of the Southland and I am
anxious to see it. I met some friends in England who
spent the past winter at Sebring and they were enthusiastic over the place. They had regained their health
and felt that it was the place Ponce de Leon was looking
for when he made his search to find the fountain of
youth. They said that Sebring had more sunshine than
any other place in Florida. I made up my mind that
I would never leave Florida before I visited this wonderful spot and see what it would do for my health."
Robert was very much impressed with Lady Bersford's report on Sebring and decided that it must be
the ideal place for a tired businessman to go and enjoy
the sports and recoup his health. It took very little
persuading on the part of Lady Bersford to get Robert
to go to Sebring with her.
On March 27th, Lady Bersford and Robert Gordon
arrived in Sebring, Florida. They found everything
just as had been described by her friends. The climate

268
was ideal, fishing good. Robert enjoyed the golf links
and his health began to improve a few days after he
arrived. Time went by rapidly and a month was gone
before Robert knew it. He had regained health so
rapidly that he felt he had indeed found the Fountain
of Youth. Having been born on the farm, he loved
nature. The beautiful scenery around Sebring delighted
him; made him forget his troubles and caused him to
be more hopeful of the future. He dreamed of the day
when Marie might return to him, and he could take her
to Florida to see beautiful Silver Springs, then to
Sebring to see all the beautiful lakes and the Kissimmee
River. If her health should ever be bad, that would
be the place to restore her and she would enjoy the
surrounding country as he had.

269
CHAPTER XXIV

IN the latter part of April, Robert decided that he 
must return to New York and take up his duties.  
He said good-bye to Lady Bersford. Was profuse in
his thanks; assured her that he owed her a great debt
of gratitude for the comforting messages that she had
brought to him thru "Laughing Waters" and above all
was under lasting obligation for the great kindness she
had rendered in bringing him to Sebring where he had
fully regained his health. She assured him that it was
a real pleasure to her to have been of service and invited him to visit her estate in England on his next
trip over.
As Robert started toward New York, his heart was
light, his hopes were revived and he had greater faith
than ever that Marie was alive and would in the not
distant future return to him. When he arrived in New
York he went direct to his office and laboratory. Walter
and Edna greeted him with enthusiasm. Were happy
to see him looking so well. Walter grabbed both of
Robert's hands and said, "Old pal, I have never seen
you looking so well. You must have found Ponce de
Leon's fountain of eternal youth while you were in
Florida." Robert replied, "I certainly did. Had some
wonderful experience at Silver Springs, the most beautiful spot in Florida. It was there that I received information that made me very happy becuse it made me

270
sure that Marie is alive and will return to me. Also
while there I heard about the most wonderful health
resort in the world at Sebring, Florida, where I went
and indeed found the 'fountain of youth,' spending
over a month there playing, fishing and boating. It
is about the only place in Florida where you can get
good water to drink without having it shipped in. The
sunshine and climate are ideal. I began to get better
the second day after I was there and gained strength
every day. You should certainly go to Florida on a
vacation next winter and spend your time at Sebring.
If you ever get married, be sure to go to Silver Springs
on your honeymoon for you will enjoy this beautiful
spot and scenery. Take the trip down Silver River to
the Ocklawaha, then down the beautiful St. Johns
River. If you can make the trip next March or early
April, you will find Nature at her best. You will forget
all of your troubles, for Nature has so staged the scenery
that it reminds you only of pleasant things and inspires
hope and happiness in the future."
When Robert had finished telling about the beauties
of Florida, Walter acted bashful and Edna looked rather
sheepish. Then Walter said, "Robert, we have a big
surprise for you. Edna and I are going to be married
in June." "Well, this is quite a surprise," said Robert,
"but I knew it would come sooner or later. You must
have thought I guessed it when I talked about you going
on a honeymoon. I congratulate you both and wish
you all the happiness in the world. You are entitled
to it and I know that you will be happy together."
The news of their coming marriage was not the only

271
good news they had. Walter and Edna had been working day and night for months on a great chemical discovery and had now succeeded in completing it. This
discovery was a perfectly harmless gas to be used in
war or for medical purposes. It would put people to
sleep and they would remain asleep for 7 days, with no
ill effects. It had always been Robert's desire to have
something to use in war which would not destroy human
lives and he was very much elated over Walter's discovery. Walter told him that he had already tested it
and that Edna had such confident in him, she had taken
the gas, remained asleep for 7 days, and felt no ill
effects. Walter knew just exactly why it worked, because he was a great chemist and knew the natural law
behind the discovery. He told Robert that this must
be kept a secret until time of war when with the new
ship "Marie the Angel of Mercy," traveling 1000 miles
an hour, they could go from one city to another or from
one battlefield to another, release the gas and put everyone to sleep for 7 days. In the meantime, with "The
Demon of Death" -- they could destroy the enemy's
bases and fortifications; would be able to make their
own peace terms with the enemy and at the same time
obey the divine command of God "Thou shalt not kill."
Cotton had been advancing rapidly and Robert and
Walter were making money fast. Robert told Walter
and Edna that on June 9th, his birthday, he was going
to give them a big dinner and celebration before their
marriage. It was now time to declare a holiday and
have a real jubilee celebration after their great discoveries were completed, that it was but fitting to crown

272
the event with the marriage of Edna and Walter. They
were now in position to sit calmly by and wait for the
great war in the air knowing that, with their secret
discoveries, they were prepared to save the United States
in time of war and at the same time without sacrificing
too many human lives.
The birthday party was a great success. Robert
spared no expense in order to have everything of the
best. Before the dinner, which was served in a private
dining room, Robert sprung a great surprise. He arose
and made the following speech: "Comrades and friends,
we have traveled the path of life together. Some of
us have run the gauntlet of human emotions. We have
gone down to the depths of despair; have reached the
heights of financial glory; have seen our greatest dreams
realized. God has been good to us. Our great discoveries are now completed. Fame and fortune have
corwned our efforts. You, Edna and Walter, are now
to reach the heights of greatest bliss. You are to have
the satisfaction of being united in marriage, to continue
your work together and do the greatest good for the greatest number. You have been unselfish in your devotion
to me and in your loyalty to your country. The Bible
says that where two or three are gathered together, there
God will be to own and to bless. Since God created the
world, the Holy Trinity has been the greatest power
and it is referred to many times in the Bible as Father,
Son and Holy Ghost, and on this mundane sphere
we know that happiness comes to husband, wife and
child. The Bible says that one cannot do much alone,
that there is need of two together, and that a threefold

273
cord is not easily broken. Edna, your devotion to Walter has been his inspiration and has led him to the
great discovery, which will relieve suffering in the world.
Your confidence in him in placing your life in his
hands to test this great discovery, deserves great credit
and no honor or reward is too great for you, but the
honor that men can give or the world or your Government, are but empty and mean nothing to the heart of
a loyal woman. You are to have the greatest reward
in Walter's love and this means more to you than any
honors the world can give. It will satisfy when the
shouts of the hero-worshippers have died away. When
money, with all it can buy, has vanished and nothing
remains but the lovelight in Walter's eyes, you will
find happiness." Robert then presented a beautiful
brooch made with the seal of Solomon, constructed with
a double triangle, and set with three beautiful diamonds.
In the center of the seal was a heart and in the center
of the heart was a diamond. He said, "Edna, I present
this to you as your wedding gift. It will be a symbol
to you of how the three of us have worked together in
love, loyalty and faith, to accomplish something for
others thru unselfish devotion. With the love of the
one must come the love of the many. One touch of
Nature makes the whole world kin, and when once a
woman's eyes have looked into a man's with understanding love, he need seek no farther for the philosopher's
stone, because after that everything he touches will turn
to gold. This brooch and the diamonds are emblematic
of your purity. The diamonds are the most durable
and beautiful of all precious stones. They reflect all

274
the beautiful colors of the rainbow, which reveals God's
covenant with man. That is why the diamonds are
used as an engagement ring, but few there are who know
and understand the real meaning and live in accordance
with it. You will ever reflect the beauty of the diamonds. Your love for Walter, which is the love I am
sure never changes, will remain fixed as the mountain
ranges. Remember that the diamond has gone thru the
greatest fire and heat and has emerged with all its
strength and beauty. You must learn to go thru trials
and tribulations, to help Walter in time of trouble and
to emerge unscathed, reflecting love and beauty. Walter, I commend to your care and keeping, a jewel more
precious than diamonds or rubies -- a good woman. May
your loyalty and devotion ever keep her as such."
The dinner was then served and Edna proved that,
as an after-dinner speaker, she had some ability. She
arose, drank a glass of pure water, pouring part of it
on the floor and said, "Mr. Gordon, my vocabulary is
now destitute of the poetic rhyme that would be necessary to bring into existence words to express to you my
heartfelt thanks for the favor already in hand. I have
been so over-generous in loving Walter that I feel that
I've neglected to extend to you the friendship due to a
man of such noble ideals. As I pour this pure water
back to earth I am following an ancient custom. Before they entered upon any solemn obligation, they
washed their hands in pure water, touched their lips
with pure water, to purify them and to seal the records
of the past. They poured the pure water back to earth,
in memory of the absent and dead. I pour this pure
water back to earth that in the presence of the living we

275
are not forgetting the absent one, and the greatest wish
that I can have for you, Mr. Gordon, is that at a not
distant date, Walter and I may have the great pleasure
of joining Marie and yourself in an occasion like this.
Words are idle now, they mean but little when the heart
is touched. I accept your beautiful gift with all gratitude. It is my prayer that the day may come when
you may have another brooch made with two hearts
entwined, set with a single solitaire, emblematic of your
faith and pure love for Marie. I pray for you the gifts
of all the Gods, and may your prayers be answered as
the prayers of Pygmalion were whose faith and love
were so strong that the Grecian Gods turned a piece of
cold marble into the living form of a beautiful woman.
But, Robert, when Marie returns to you in all her beauty,
I am sure that you will not act in the way that Pygmalion did, when he caused Galatea to pray to the
Grecian Gods to turn her back to cold marble again.
I am sure, yes, I know, that such devotion as yours
will keep Marie always when she returns to you."
When Edna had finished, Walter arose and said,
"Robert, there is nothing left for me to say, I thank
you."
On the 24th of June, Walter and Edna were married.
Robert suggested that for their honeymoon they go up
thru Canada and see the beautiful scenery there, then
go down thru California and in the Fall and Winter,
take a second honeymoon trip to Florida and visit Silver
Springs and Sebring. Robert's mind always drifted
back to the beautiful places where he thought people
in love would find harmony and could commune with
Nature.

276
CHAPTER XXV

IN the Fall of 1929, Robert and Walter made a 
large amount of money in cotton and wheat.  Rob-
ert was unusually happy. Altho over three years had
passed without any direct news of Marie he was sure
she was alive; felt that the time was not long to wait
before she would reappear. The war clouds had begun
to appear as Robert had predicted. Spain and Japan
were threatening the United States. Controversies
over airplane airports arose. Japan had forbidden the
United States commercial ships to land on her soil.
Diplomatic relations were not smoothing affairs out and
Robert knew that war was inevitable. Spain had made
rapid progress with airplanes and was anxious to try
her power against the United States. The United
States Government was waking up to the fact of their
need of a greater air fleet and the Air Department was
making some great progress. Robert knew they were
working on secret plans and knew that he had something that could be used successfully at the right time.
He was spending money lavishly and working to improve on his Ezekiel plane. He was keeping everything secret, sending out plans to different manufacturers and having the parts made, Walter and himself
secretly putting the machine together. Robert had made
a large amount of money buying oil stocks. A big bull

277
campaign in oil stocks had been brought about by the
decreasing oil supply. The Government realizing the
increased demand for gasoline on account of the large
amount of airplanes used, knew that in time of war
their success would depend upon the supply of oil and
gas, so a decree was passed conserving the oil resources.
There was still a big foreign demand for oil and gasoline as war in Europe was still going on. Affairs in
England were in a bad state and revolution was
threatened.
APRIL, 1930
Japan declared war on the United States and Spain
joined forces with her. They secured the aid of Mexico
and established an air base there. The United States
was unprepared for war as they had not kept up the
programme of building a sufficient air fleet to protect
the country against invasion by such a large fleet as
commanded by Japan and Spain. There was a hasty
call by the Government for volunteers to the Aviation
Corps. Robert Gordon and Walter Kennelworth hastened to Washington, tendered their services to the
Government and joined the Aviation Corps. They were
made Lieutenants and ordered immediately to San
Antonio, Texas, where the Southern Aviation Division
had its headquarters. Robert offered the benefit of his
experience to the officials, but older and wiser heads
refused to listen to his advice because they thought he
was too young. At that time they knew nothing about
his long years of secret work and his great inventions,
but they soon learned the value of his discovery and

278
patent which he had sold to Japan, -- the muffler which
made the airplane silent.
The United States Government fearing that Japan
would make the first attack on the Pacific Coast either
around Los Angeles or San Francisco, rushed the battle
fleet to the Pacific. This proved to be one of the greatest mistakes of the war. As soon as the battleships
cruised into the Pacific, Japan attacked from the air
with their noiseless airplanes and began dropping deadly
bombs from great heights. The anti-aircraft guns from
the decks of the battleships were powerless to reach
the bombing planes at such great heights. Defeat was
swift and severe and only a few of the battleships escaped complete destruction from the first attack. The
United States Officers had found that the Japanese
planes could rise more than twice the altitude of the
United States planes. They knew that Japan had some
invention that was superior to ours which enabled them
to reach such great heights that their airships were
practically immune from attack. This placed the
United States at a great disadvantage as they were unable to protect the coast cities from being destroyed by
bombs from the Japanese planes.
A council of war was held. The commanding officers
were called together. The President hastily summoned
the Cabinet. There was no minimizing the danger for
everyone knew that the ingenuity of Japan had designed
a superior fighting plane; that this was to be a war in
the air and that all old methods and weapons of war
were obsolete; that the United States must move quick
and fast to prevent destruction of the Pacific Coast cities.

279
They decided to confiscate the large manufacturing
plants and start them on making new inventions and
the manufacture of airplanes. Central Steel was confiscated; also Major Motors and Major Electric Co.
The war council decided that they should scatter their
air forces from Brownsville, Texas, up to El Paso to
protect the Rio Grande from attack thru Mexico; that
the battle line should extend up the Colorado River on
across to Portland and Seattle. The land forces were
all rushed to the Coast, forming a battle line from
Brownsville, Texas, across to the Northwest to Seattle.
It was decided that this line should be held with reserve
forces to be sent to support a second line of defense
running from San Diego up the Coast to Portland, to
protect inland invasion by the foe in case they were successful in capturing any of the coast cities. People
in Los Angeles and San Francisco were in a state of
turmoil. Thousands were leaving every day by train
and airplane, going to the Grand Canyon where there
were no cities and they hoped they would be safe from
attacks. Others went to the central and eastern parts
of the United States because they feared attacks any
day.
Japan was quick to follow up her victory gained on
the water by attacking Los Angeles from the air in the
middle of May. Here again the great value of the silent
motor was proved and the height to which the Japanese
plane could rise. As the enemy stole over the city in
the silence of the night, not a sound could be heard
from their motors at the great heights which they were
sailing. Bombs began to fall in the business section

280
and the skyscrapers crumbled to pieces. Every street
light was ordered out, leaving the city in total darkness.
The people were aroused at the first noise of exploding
bombs and rushed out to find the city in darkness. This
caused a panic. Army officers tried to quiet the people
and keep them in their homes because they realized the
danger if they rushed out into the streets where the
bombs were falling. Powerful searchlights were sweeping the sky in an effort to locate the invading planes.
Then the giant aircraft guns were trained on the enemy,
but the distance was so great and the planes moving so
swiftly, that they were unable to do much damage.
They only succeeded in bringing down three of the bombing planes. The United States scouting planes were
sent out immediately, followed by the fighting planes
carrying 6-inch guns. They found that the Japanese
planes were dropping bombs from a height of 60,000
to 80,000 feet and the United States planes were unable
to rise high enough to attack them.
The battle waged thruout the night and when the sun
rose the next morning, the beautiful city of Los Angeles
was in ruins. Thousands of people bad been killed and
the most of the important buildings had been destroyed.
The people of Los Angeles were more excited than they
had ever been during earthquakes. The destruction and
loss of life were so great that everyone forgot all about
their property and money and only thought of saving
their lives and protecting their loved ones. The commanding officers held a hasty conference, realizing the
great damage the enemy had done and the small damage
they had been able to inflict upon them and knowing

281
that the enemy would follow this attack by more attacks
it was decided that to force the people to remain meant
certain death and a destruction of the balance of the
valuable property, so the only thing to do was to move
the people out as fast as possible and surrender the
city. After the commanders had held this council,
news of their decision was conveyed to the subordinate
officers.
Lieutenant Gordon's heart was broken when he realized that the beautiful city of Los Angeles must be
either surrendered or destroyed, yet he knew that unless
the Government quickly made some new and wonderful
inventions, many more defeats were in store. When
Captain George Cooper who was in command of Lieutenant Gordon's company, received orders that no move
was to be made and no scouts to be sent out until further
instructions, he called Lieutenants Gordon and Kennelworth and conveyed to them the orders. Lieutenant
Gordon was desperate. He wanted to do something to
help save the situation, but to offer his advice to his
superior officers was futile. Finally, he decided to disobey orders and go out on a scouting expedition alone
and see what he could find out. He thought he might
locate a Japanese base, as he believed they had a
mother ship somewhere near from which they were
sending out the bombing planes. He was flying very
low as he crossed the line below San Diego. All at once
a Japanese plane was coming straight toward him.
He immediately turned his plane and rushed back
across the line followed closely by the enemy who was
gaining on him rapidly. Lieutenant Gordon whirled

282
his plane around quickly and charged the Japanese
plane. The fight lasted for several minutes.
After Lieutenant Gordon had been gone some time
and failed to return Lieutenant Kennelworth knowing
that he had disobeyed orders and gone out with his
plane decided that some harm might have come to him
and that he too must disobey orders and go to his rescue.
He jumped into a fast plane and sailed out, going
direct toward San Diego. He soon sighted the two
planes in combat and just before he reached the scene,
they went down together. His heart sank within him.
He knew it was his old friend Robert and feared for
the worst. Landing along the side of the wreck he
found that the Japanese aviator had been killed. Robert's leg had been broken; otherwise he was uninjured.
He quickly hauled him aboard his own plane and
started back for headquarters and was just in time as
other Japanese planes were approaching and followed
him close into Los Angeles. Lieutenant Gordon was
confined to the hospital three or four weeks before his
leg healed and he fully recovered. He was given a
severe reprimand for disobeying orders but because he
had brought down an enemy plane the Government
made him a Captain for this bravery and also promoted
Lieutenant Kennelworth, his chum, to the same rank.
In the meantime, the people had been moved away
from Los Angeles as fast as possible. There had been several minor attacks by the enemy and more buildings had
been destroyed and only a few of the enemy's planes
had been brought down. The situation was desperate.
People were frantic. The United States was hopelessly

283
outnumbered by the Spanish and Japanese air forces.
England was threatening to join forces with Japan and
Spain. An attack on San Francisco was expected at
any hour. People wanted to get away and move east
into the mountains for protection, but the Government
had notified everyone to remain. The fact that the
foreign planes were noiseless put the United States at
a great disadvantage. Robert and Walter were using
their secret radio to communicate with each other.
They had offered this invention to the Government and
it had been accepted. This was a great help as the Japanese were unable to intercept their code messages or
take any message from the air because there were none.
The United States Army officers knew that they must
fight for time to get some new inventions ready to combat the enemy. On June 14th, Los Angeles was surrendered. White flags were run up all over the city as
a signal for the enemy planes to stop attacking. The
plan was to send no message to the enemy headquarters
in Mexico but to wait and see what action they would
take or what terms they would offer to make. General
Pearson of the Aviation Corps, General Johnson of the
Cavalry, Admiral Dawson of the Navy and General
Marshall of the Infantry held a council to decide the
next and wisest move to make. A plan was discussed
for crossing the Rio Grande into Mexico with land
troops and making an attempt to capture the supply
base of the enemy. General Pearson said that the days
of old tactics and war had changed, that the enemy
evidently intended to make this a war in the air and
that they would attack troops from the air. To send

284
an army into the mountains of Mexico would not only
mean the loss of thousands of lives, which would prove
useless, but that part of the air force would have to be
sent into Mexico to protect the army and this would
weaken the coast patrol and give the enemy a chance to
make an air attack on other coast cities. Admiral
Dawson said that in the weakened condition of the
Navy, since the disaster from the first attack by the Japanese planes, it would be foolhardy to attempt any aggressive campaign by the Navy, that what ships they had
were now scattered along the Southern, Eastern and
Western shores for protection and to concentrate them
at one point would only weaken other joints from which
they would have to be withdrawn. General Marshall
was of the opinion that the best plan was not to attack,
but let the enemy make the first move every time and
try to find some way to protect the coast cities, that
what we needed was time to get better equipped with
sufficient airplanes to cope with the enemy's superior air
force. So it was finally decided that the wisest course
to pursue was a waiting attitude.
There was a panic in Wall Street when the news came
of the surrender of Los Angeles. Edna had been left
in charge of the office in New York and thru the secret
Pocket Radio, kept in communication with Waltetr and
Robert. She was conducting a campaign in the stock
market for them and had made a fortune on the short
side of the market. Business was bad, and the whole
country was in a state of turmoil.
After the white flags were floated over the ruins of
Los Angeles, days went by and there were no more

285
attacks by the enemy, nor was any word received from
enemy headquarters. The American patrol planes
around Los Angeles reported occasionally seeing the
enemy planes scouting over the city at great heights,
evidently taking observation as to what was going on.
This mysterious action on the part of the enemy was a
source of worry to the commanding officers of the United
States. The people all over the country were in a state
of anxiety, wondering where the enemy would strike
next. The Infantry and Cavalry were restlessly waiting orders to go into action along the Rio Grande.
On the night of August 1st, the enemy planes crossed
the Rio Grande and dropped bombs all along from
Brownsville to El Paso, destroying property and killing
more than a hundred thousand men among the Infantry
and Cavalry. The enemy planes were again flying very
high. The anti-craft guns and the attack by our
planes did very little damage, only bringing down five
of the enemy planes along the entire lines, while more
than 200 of the American airplanes were destroyed by
bombs dropping on them from above. General Marshall in his report to General Pearson next day said:
"Hell turned loose in the sky last night from Brownsville
to El Paso. Our loss was terrific and the enemy's loss
was very small. There is but one hope and that is to
get more and better airplanes. We must get planes that
will rise to a height where they can reach the enemy
and make the fight in the air."
Captain Robert Gordon was still stationed near Los
Angeles and when news came of the terrible loss of life
along the Rio Grande, his mind turned to "Marie the

286
Angel of Mercy," -- his great plane secretly stored away
in the Adirondack Mountains for use in just such an
emergency as this. He knew what the "Demon of Death"
could do and the sleeping gas invented by Captain
Kennelworth. He thought of going to General Pearson,
telling him of his discoveries and offering them to the
United States to put into immediate use, but after
meditating over the matter decided that they would only
call him a fool and refuse to listen to him as they had
before, because he was too young. However, he asked
General Pearson for orders to permit him to go on a
scouting expedition over Mexico and up and down the
Rio Grande to see if he could learn anything of value.
On the morning of August 3rd, Captain Robert Gordon traveled across Arizona and New Mexico and as he
neared El Paso saw the largest airship that he had ever
seen before slowly drifting over El Paso. It was a giant
plane and Robert knew that it was either a mother ship
or one of the enemy's great bombing planes which had
been so high that he had never been able to see them
before. He began circling it at a great distance, watching to see what this monster of the air was going to do.
Finally, it slowed down and came to a complete standstill. He saw that it could anchor in the air and knew
that the enemy had another discovery that would beat
what the Americans had. Waiting for awhile, he saw
what seemed to be an observation platform emerge from
the side of the plane. An officer appeared on it with
some instruments. Captain Gordon thought that they
were either taking photographs or making observations
over El Paso for some purpose. Fortunately, he had
started out on a bombing plane and had plenty of bombs

287
on board. Decided that he had but one life to give for
his country and that he would rise as high as he could,
sail swiftly over this monster and drop his bombs.
When he got as close over it as he could gauge, he released the automatic control and started dropping bombs
one after another. The first bomb made a hit and
struck the ship near the middle, which was lucky, tearing a terrific hole in it. He knew from the way it acted
that it was badly disabled. Now was the time to get
in his effective work. Dropping lower, he let go more
bombs, this time striking the giant ship both in the front
and rear. It started to fall rapidly and he followed it
down and got close enough to see that there were still
men on board alive so he let go more bombs and in a
few minutes there was nothing but a wreck of the greatest dreadnought of death which had ever floated over
American soil.
Before venturing to land Captain Gordon ascended to
a great height, circled the sky to see if there were any
more enemy ships in sight which might endanger his
life. Finding the air clear, he immediately radioed
the news with his Pocket-Radio to Captain Kennelworth
who was then stationed at San Diego. The news was
quickly flashed to General Pearson's headquarters. On
examination they found that the giant ship was a mother
ship more than 600 feet long, bearing the name of
"Tokyo J-1" and that it carried 25 bombing planes of
the most modern type with collapsible wings and
equipped with powerful searchlights carrying bombs
and poisonous gases. It was estimated that more than
100 officers and aviators were aboard the airship when
it fell. All were killed but two. They were badly

288
wounded with broken limbs and were taken prisoners.
There were found to be three of the enemy's planes that
were not damaged badly. Captain Gordon and Captain Kennelworth tested these planes after they were
put back in working order and found that they were
high altitude planes and could rise higher than any of
the planes used by the United States. This was a great
victory because it would enable the American inventors
to find out how these planes were built and they could
also be used against the enemy.
News of this great victory was sent to the President
of the United States. He ordered General Pearson to
decorate Captain Gordon with the Cross of Aviation
and convey to him the gratitude of the people of the
United States and the President's sincere personal appreciation. The afternoon newspapers in every large
city in the United States carried in big headlines
"GIANT MOTHER SHIP CAPTURED BY DARING YOUNG AVIATOR, CAPTAIN ROBERT
GORDON." The people thruout the United States
breathed a sigh of relief; felt that the tide was at last
turning and that now some way would be found to destroy more of the enemy's giant ships.
When General Pearson called Captain Gordon before
him, he was very modest and meek because he remembered the severe reprimand before when he disobeyed
orders and brought down the Japanese plane near San
Diego. This time he had acted on instructions from
General Pearson and was very happy to have rendered
a great service to his country. As the General read the
message from the President, tears came into his eyes.
He thanked his commanding officer and said that he

289
hoped he might have many more opportunities to render
service to his beloved country. At that time his
thoughts turned to Marie and he wondered where she
might be and if she knew what was happening. He was
especially happy because he had brought this enemy ship
down in the State in which he was born and that State
of which he was very proud. Captain Kennelworth
came to congratulate him and said: "Robert, old pal, I
am very proud of you and your great achievement.
The Lone Star State of Texas which was distinguished
by its brave sons at the Battle of the Alamo, has again
been distinguished by one of her favorite sons, and
Mexico as well as Spain and Japan will be made to realize that the Texans never surrender."
After the night attack and the great destruction along
the Rio Grande, the American forces waited anxiously
and in peril for another attack. Days went by without any sign from the enemy. Los Angeles had not
been molested and the mystery was deepening as to what
were the enemy's plans and the next move they would
make. General Pearson had ordered one of the planes
from the "Tokyo J-1" sent to the Major Electric Company in the East where they could experiment with it
and make some planes like it or better ones. He gave
one of the planes to Captain Gordon and the other to
Captain Kennelworth to be put into service. Captain
Gordon asked that they be permitted to go into Mexico,
locate the enemy's headquarters and try to destroy more
of their ships, but the General refused to grant this
request, saying that he would not risk the lives of such
valuable men or risk losing the ships which might prove
very valuable when the enemy again made an attack.

290
CHAPTER XXVI
SEPTEMBER, 1930

AFTER long days of anxious waiting, with the 
people nervous and excited, came the attack on
San Francisco. The enemy planes attacked from the
West, the South and the North, slipping in silently
in large numbers. Poisoned gas was turned loose, bombs
were dropped all over the city and most of the important
business and Government buildings were destroyed.
The destruction was the greatest in history, much
greater than the earthquake in 1906. Loss of life was
terrific. General Pearson ordered Captain Gordon and
Kennelworth to lead the defense of the city, using the
Japanese planes which had been taken from the wreck
of the "Tokyo J-1." As soon as they got in high altitude over San Francisco, they could see that this was a
gigantic attack. Thousands of airplanes were circling
the air from every direction. It was evident that the
enemy intended to destroy San Francisco very quickly.
Captain Gordon and Captain Kennelworth were able
to keep in communication thru their Pocket Radio.
They agreed that one of them should attack the enemy
planes approaching from the North and the other, the
planes approaching from the South and West, going as
high as they could and if possible getting above the
enemy planes and dropping bombs on them. When

291
Captain Gordon got high in the air, he saw another
mother ship anchored and with the smaller planes taking off from it. He sailed over and let loose his bombs
and destroyed this ship. Other ships were coming from
every direction by the thousands. He sailed over them
letting loose his bombs cautiously.
Captain Kennelworth also encountered planes by the
thousands coming across from the West and succeeded
in bringing down numbers of them. Finally, the enemy
planes turned on him and when he saw that escape
seemed almost impossible, decided to try to race back
to headquarters. The enemy planes were firing on him.
One wing of his plane was damaged, then a propeller
was broken and as his plane was crashing to the earth,
he felt that he was sure to lose his life; tried to steer
the best he could and finally, seeing that he was going
to land on a smooth spot where there were no trees or
buildings, he crawled out on top of one of the wings.
A few minutes after the crash he regained consciousness, finding himself uninjured with only a few minor
scratches. Fortunately he was near one of the army
bases and made his way quickly there. He could see
to the West that San Francisco was in flames and knew
that the destruction was complete. His first thought
was what had happened to his old pal, Robert Gordon.
Feeling in his pocket and finding his radio safe, he sent
the distress signal which they had always used, asking
"Are you alive and where are you?" Minutes went by
and no reply. He was heartsick and feared that Robert
had lost his life. He slowly made his way to headquarters and reported what had happened.

292
Captain Gordon finally exhausted his bombs, but he
estimated that he had brought down several hundred
of the enemy planes because he had sailed over them
where they were flying by the hundreds in wedge formations, each division being followed by a giant supply
ship which could anchor high up in the air and supply
more bombs when the bombing planes exhausted their
supply and returned for more. Robert thought, "this is
just what our Government needs. If there were only a
supply ship in the air now where I could go and get
more bombs, I could bring down hundreds more of the
enemy's planes." He decided to make his way back to
the base or headquarters as he was powerless without
bombs, but his decision was too late. The enemy planes
had located him and were coming straight toward him.
He speeded up and tried to make his way to safety,
fearing that any minute the enemy would fire on him or
drop a bomb on his plane, but the Japanese had discovered that he was flying one of their own planes and
they thought he was one of their own aviators and had
no intention of harming him. When they got close
enough to see that the plane was piloted by an American
aviator, they flew close beside him, signaled him to
follow them, one plane leading and two others falling
in beside him. There was nothing else to do and he was
glad of a chance to save his life. They led him up, up,
up, thousands of feet in the air, finally reached a giant
plane anchored, where they landed, taking Captain
Gordon a prisoner.
As soon as they had landed with him, his mind went
back to the days of his youth, when he had built his

293
first bicycle to ride on the water, and when he had read
the Bible and talked about the wars to come and made
his plans for the great airship. He recalled the dream
his mother had which greatly disturbed her. She told
him she dreamed that she saw San Francisco destroyed
by some terrible machine and that one of her sons had
nearly lost his life there. He thought of how his mother
had told him about his oldest brother losing his life in
the San Francisco earthquake and he wondered if now
he was to lose his life there, because he felt that the
Japs were very treacherous and would probably not
keep him a prisoner but would take his life. He prayed
for his dear old mother and prayed for Marie that she
might be safe and her life be spared, no matter what
his fate might be.
Through all this excitement, for the first time he
thought of his Pocket-Radio. Before he could get it
out of his pocket, he received the S.O.S. signal from
Walter and answered, telling him what had happened
and where he was.
Ever since the first battle of Los Angeles, the United
States officers had felt certain that an attack would
come upon San Francisco and had prepared for it the
best way possible. They had concentrated a greater
portion of their best airplanes there and had thrown
them into the fight by the thousands and they had gone
down in large numbers, not only being outnumbered by
the enemy planes but being unable to follow the enemy
planes high enough to destroy them. When reports
were made the following morning, more than three
thousand of this country's airplanes had been lost.

294
The loss of life in San Francisco was appalling. Almost
half of the population had been wiped out. Most of
the valuable buildings had been destroyed. All the
ships anchored in the harbor were blown to pieces. A
poisonous gas which American chemists had never seen
or heard of before had been distributed all over San
Francisco and the people who were left were sick and
dying by the thousands. The waters in the bay had
been poisoned and the fish were dying from this deadly
gas. It was indeed a time of trouble such as the world
has never known, as spoken of by St. John in the Book
of Revelation.
The capture of Captain Gordon and the loss of both
of the Japanese airplanes which had been captured
at the destruction of the "Tokyo J-1" was a disheartening blow, because Captain Kennelworth had reported
how effectively he had worked over the enemy planes
and how many he had destroyed. He was sure that
Captain Gordon had destroyed many of their planes.
When a survey was made of the city it was found that
several hundred of the enemy's planes had been brought
down. Most of this was attributed to the work done
by Captain Gordon and Kennelworth with the high
altitude foreign planes. When all reports were in, the
commanders of the United States armies got together
for a conference. This disaster in such a short time
was bewildering and it required quick decision as to
the next move. They were at a loss to figure out what
the enemy's next move would be, remembering that
after Los Angeles had been surrendered and the white
flag had floated over it, it had never been molested.

295
Knowing that another attack would finish the remains
of San Francisco, they decided to surrender it, and
again the white flag was raised over all the remaining
buildings. When General Pearson saw these instructions being carried out, he was overcome with emotion.
Tears were flowing down his cheeks and he exclaimed:
"My God, my God, is the land of liberty to be destroyed?
Is there no way to prevent this deadly destruction?"
As soon as the Japanese had captured Captain Gordon they knew who he was. He was the man who had
sold them the great silent muffler. They brought him
to headquarters in Mexico where he was questioned as
to what other inventions he had. He told them that
the only invention he had of value was the secret radio,
with which he could send communications without any
sound in the air and without anyone intercepting the
messages, but made no mention of the other discoveries
that he had which he knew could be used in time of
emergency and of which he had never told the United
States Government officials. The Japanese offered
Robert his freedom and a large amount of money if
he would sell them this invention. After communicating secretly and silently with Walter, Robert had him
tell the commanding General about the proposition the
Japanese had offered him and asked for instructions as
to what he should do. Their reply was to remain prisoner and not give up any of his secrets to the enemy,
because the situation was bad enough at the best. But
Robert knew that his services would be of greater value
to his Government and that it was bad judgment for
him to remain a prisoner. He felt that he could make

296
another invention for communications which would
outwit the Japs, so he decided on his own responsibility
to give up the secret radio, and after they tested it, they
gave him his freedom and conveyed him safely out of
the enemy lines. Robert returned to headquarters near
San Francisco and reported to Colonel Davis just what
he had done. He was immediately sent before General
Pearson who was then in command of the United States
Air forces. General Pearson after hearing the story
and considering Robert's splendid record, decided that
clemency should be extended to him but, before doing so,
decided to communicate with the President of the
United States and await his decision and instructions.
A meeting of the Cabinet was called and they voted that
Captain Gordon was a traitor to his country, but decided
that he should not be court-martialed and shot, but dishonored. Orders were sent that his uniform be torn from
him and that he be held a prisoner. This was the
greatest blow to Robert that had ever befallen him since
the loss of Marie, but he had faith in God. He knew
that he had done right and what was for the best, just
as the Creator of the universe does all things well and
for the best. He read his Bible that night while in
prison and was consoled by reading Job, where he said,
"Lord, Lord, I'll wait until my change comes." Robert
knew that the time would come when he would be able
to demonstrate to his Government that his judgment was
right and that he was acting for the best. His heart
and soul were with his country and he would sacrifice
time and money to be prepared to protect his Government. He asked to be allowed to have a conference with

297
Walter, which was granted. Told Walter to say nothing
about his sleeping gas discovery or the "Demon of
Death," -- the great light ray destroyer which they
could use, and to tell nothing of the great ship "Marie
the Angel of Mercy," which they had safely stored away
in the Adirondack Mountains. That when the Government came to realize the need of great help and faced
defeat, he would then demonstrate the inventions that
he had to save the country.
General Pearson was very much interested in Gordon's case. He remembered the great feat of bringing
down the "Tokyo J-1" and believed that Robert was a
genius and a valuable man to the Government. If the
officials had listened to Robert and taken the discovery
he had offered them, probably the defeat in San Francisco would never have happened. He did not blame
Robert for selling his invention to Japan in peace
time, nor did he condemn him for turning over his
secret Pocket Radio to the Japanese to secure his freedom. Believed he was loyal to his country and acted
as he thought best and had not done it for a selfish
motive. The General decided to visit Robert at the
prison. After holding a conference with him, ordered
him removed and brought to headquarters where he
could keep him under his personal supervision. Robert
confided to General Pearson that if he could secure his
release, and let him return to his laboratory in New
York, he could very quickly complete another invention to enable the United States forces to communicate
secret orders from place to place, which the enemy
could not understand or use. He told him that he had

298
an invention partly completed which when placed a certain distance from an airplane would prevent any communication by his secret radio and that with this it
would make the secret radio which he turned over to
Japan, absolutely useless. General Pearson believed
his story and had faith in him so communicated with
the President of the United States and obtained permission to send Robert Gordon to his New York laboratory. The General realized that the situation was much
worse than the newspapers were letting the public know.
The Government was suppressing their weakened condition. General Pearson knew that with help from
England or any other foreign country, it would be easy
for the enemy to take New Orleans, Chicago and then
sweep down on Washington and New York. The liberty of the United States now hung in a balance and
unless something was done, and done quickly, their
cause would be lost.
General Pearson wrote to the President that there
was no denying the fact that the situation was critical
and that the enemy had something up their sleeve and
that unless every effort was made to forestall their move,
he feared a repetition of the terrible disaster at San
Francisco. He sent the record of Robert Gordon. Said
that while he was a young man, he was one of the bravest
aviators that he had ever known; that he was not only
bright but brilliant. He believed he was a genius. That
he had had a long talk with him and that Gordon had
asked to be released and permitted to return to his
laboratory in New York where he believed he could
complete a valuable invention which would prove a great

299
help to the country. The General recommended that
Gordon be released and permitted to return to New
York and given a chance. Said that this was the age
of the young men because they were progressive and
up to the times.
The President wrote General Pearson to use his own
judgment and send Gordon to New York if he thought
best. General Pearson gave orders that Robert Gordon
be brought to him. He communicated the good news,
gave him a passport and told him to proceed immediately to New York and work just as rapidly as possible
to perfect any kind of invention that would help defeat
the enemy's plans.

300
CHAPTER XXVII

WHEN Robert arrived in New York, Edna told 
him about the great fortune which she had 
made on the short side of the market and how when
she received the good news by secret radio of his capture of the "Tokyo J-1" she calculated that as soon as
it was generally known, it would restore confidence and
stocks would have a big rally. She hastily covered all
the short contracts and bought stocks for long account.
The following afternoon when the big headlines announced the capture of the Tokyo, traders all rushed to
buy and the market advanced rapidly. She said "Mr.
Gordon, do you know the market is following the forecast which you mapped out in 1927?" He said, "I
have been so worried over the war and my dishonor that
I haven't had time to think about making money. If
General Pearson hadn't proved to be a good friend, I
would still be in prison. Now I must use some of my
inventions to help my country and prove to them that
I did act for the best and that I am loyal." Edna asked
if he thought there was any hope of the terrible war
ending soon. "No," he replied, "it will get worse in
1931 when many other nations will join against us.
The end will not come until the Summer or Fall of
1932." "That is dreadful," she said, "if it lasts that
long, they will destroy every large city in the United
States unless something is done to beat them."

301
In the latter part of October, 1930, Robert returned
to Denver, Colorado, where General Pearson had moved
the aviation headquarters, and was moving heaven and
earth to prevent the advance of the enemy toward the
East. Many people on the coast had become frightened
and moved to Denver for protection. Robert brought
the new invention which he called the "Radio Annulifier." The Spaniards and Japanese were making use
of Robert's secret radio, which was one of the most
valuable discoveries up to that time. The Annulifier
was now placed on scouting airplanes and they were
sent out. They found that it would work a distance of
several hundred miles. This disorganized the enemy
forces because they did not understand what had gone
wrong with the secret mechanism of the Pocket-Radio
with which they were able to transmit orders without
sound or fear of detection. They had to resort to the
old method of using radios and wireless. Robert had
invented a new machine to record either sound or communications by light waves. He soon secured the plans
of the enemy and reported to General Pearson, who was
still in command for the Aviation Corps, that the enemy
was planning to attack from the Gulf of Mexico, follow
up the Mississippi River, take New Orleans and at the
same time make a joint attack across the Great Lakes,
cutting off the Government's forces and the wing which
was holding across from Denver, Colorado to Canada on
North and the border of Texas on the Southwestern
side. When General Pearson received this disappointing news, he realized that the situation was desperate.
He communicated with the President of the United

302
States, who immediately called the Cabinet together.
All the Army Officers were called in conference to discuss plans as to the best thing to do to forestall the
attack. They were forced to admit the painful truth
that the fleet of airplanes was not sufficient to
withdraw enough forces from the Western line to
send to the North and South, to protect Chicago and
the Mississippi valley. General Pearson made plain
to the War Council the great value of Robert Gordon and suggested that he be restored to his
former rank for what he had already done. They
agreed with him and Robert Gordon was made Colonel
in the early part of November, 1930. Walter Kennelworth, for his great services in working with Robert,
was also promoted to Colonel.
When Colonel Gordon informed General Pearson that
Mrs. Kennelworth was his sole secret aid in completing
the Annulifier which had helped him to get the enemy's
plans, this news was conveyed by the General to the
President of the United States who ordered Mrs. Kennelworth to report immediately at headquarters in
Washington. The President thanked her personally
for the great service she had rendered the country and
told her that she was the greatest woman since Molly
Pitcher, who had taken her husband's place at the
cannon. He conferred upon her the title of Captain
of Inventions and ordered her to return to her laboratories in New York and continue her scientific work.
This brought great rejoicing to Colonel Gordon and
Colonel Kennelworth and they redoubled their efforts
to do everything to help save the country, but they were

303
not in the War Council and had nothing to say in regard
to the plans of protection or attack.
Complications came thick and fast, the enemy was
landing more planes in Mexico, bringing up reinforcements. They moved part of their army from San
Francisco north, and in December, 1930, after a short
engagement, captured Seattle and Portland. The War
Council knew that this left the enemy in command of
the entire Pacific Coast as most all of the smaller towns
had been abandoned because they feared destruction
and the next attack would probably be either on the
South or the East. They were satisfied that they would
probably attack from the Gulf of Mexico and try to
get a good hold on the Southeastern part of the United
States and, if successful, would then attack from Canada
and the Great Lakes. The United States Government
was making airplanes as fast as possible, but they were
so far behind and lacked trained men to man them,
that the situation was very tense and the Government
officials freely expressed their anxiety. People in the
East were excited and scared. They feared an attack
upon the defenseless cities at any time and that the
destruction of Los Angelss, San Francisco, Portland
and Seattle might be repeated. The crushing blows that
the Government had received in the loss of the Pacific
Coast had weakened the morale of the people and they
had lost confidence in the Government and its officials.
The fact that the enemy had made no attempt to set
a fixed ransom on any of the cities captured showed that
they were looking for something bigger before trying
to enforce their demands upon the United States. The

304
Government officials knew that the Japanese would demand California or the greater part of the Pacific Coast
territory. They were hoping that further attacks could
be staved off until they were better prepared to meet
them. Army officials, as usual, thought they were handling everything for the best and paid no attention to
the counsel of men who might be able to help.
Colonel Kennelworth confided to some of the Generals that Colonel Gordon and himself had some great
discoveries which, when and if completed would beat
the enemy, but they paid little attention to his statements, and after Walter and Robert had a conference,
they decided to keep quiet and say nothing further about
them until the time when the Government was in desperation and would listen to reason.
1931
After months of waiting and only a few scouting expeditions on the part of the enemy, a sudden attack
occurred in March. A large fleet of airplanes sailed up
the Mississippi River and attacked New Orleans. Destruction was swift and severe. The United States
started to withdraw forces from across the Central
part and from Texas, but they soon realized that
somewhere out in the Atlantic Ocean or in the
Gulf of Mexico, there was a secret base of supplies
and they suspected that England had already joined
forces with the enemy. The enemy's planes were
so superior, their poisonous gas and bombs so effective
that New Orleans fell within three days. The alarm
spread so fast over the United States that people were

305
panic-stricken. There was a panic in Wall Street.
Stocks crashed rapidly and Captain Edna Kennelworth
was again on the short side and had made a large amount
of money for the firm of Gordon & Kennelworth.
After the terrible destruction of New Orleans, it was
again decided to float the white flag over the city, as
had been done in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Portland
and Seattle. People were badly frightened; were leaving their homes and property and going in every direction, not knowing which was the best way to go to save
their lives. Many of the old darkies went to the
swamps, hid out until they were starving to death, feeling that they were safer away from any of the cities
or buildings. The most mystifying thing to the Government officials was that up to this time when the
enemy had succeeded in destroying a city, they had
never returned or attempted to do any more damage
after the white flag floated over it. They knew that the
enemy had several bases in Mexico and were at a loss
to understand why more attacks had not been made on
the towns along the border of Texas; but now that they
had started up the Mississippi River, it was plain that
they were bent on destroying only the largest cities in
the country and that, eventually, they would make demands for large amounts of indemnity and territory.
Why no demands had been made up to this time and
why the enemy had not tried to land troops and take
charge was hard to understand. The wiser heads among
the Government officials felt that the enemy wanted to
sufficiently frighten the people all over the United States
and destroy enough life and property that when they

306
did make a demand, that no matter how unreasonable,
the United States would be forced to accept. It was
thought that there was some secret treaty between Spain,
Japan, Mexico and other foreign countries, and that
they had started their campaign in the South and would
later attack the Eastern Coast because they knew that
they would get help from other countries if it was required.
After the fall of New Orleans, the enemy continued
their march up the Mississippi valley. One by one
important cities were bombed. Natchez, Vicksburg,
then Memphis fell under the fire of the enemy. The
devastation was the greatest ever known. Not only
were the buildings destroyed by bombs, but fire and
poisoned gases were used. Hundreds of thousands of
people lost their lives. People were so terrified that
they wanted to flee to the mountains and forests and
get away from all the towns. The march up the Mississippi thus far had cost the Government the loss of
thousands of their best airplanes. The enemy's loss was
very small. On account of flying at such great heights,
it was hard to reach them with the anti-aircraft guns
or the army planes.
The United States army officers knew that the next
objective would be St. Louis, and that if St. Louis were
captured, they would probably attack Chicago, close the
lines, prepare to attack the Eastern Coast and try to
take Washington and New York. Colonel Gordon and
Colonel Kennelworth were doing great work, but were
fighting against terrific odds. They had to take orders
from their superior officers, and were not able to act

307
on their own initiative. Colonel Gordon was permitted
to sit in at a conference of the War Council in April,
1931, but after listening to his plans, they refused to
accept them; at the, same time they knew the country
needed help because further attacks were imminent, and
the enemy was pushing on to victory and gaining more
help all the time. Some of Colonel Gordon's plans were
to ask France to come to our aid in view of the fact
they had helped us in the Revolution of 1812 and that
we had gone to their rescue in the Great War in 1917
showing our appreciation for the services rendered by
Lafayette. He also wanted to ask Canada to join us
and protect the Northern border of the United States.
After the first battle of New Orleans, the United
States transferred all the planes they could spare for
patrol of the Eastern and Southern coasts along the
Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico. Commercial and passenger airplanes were crossing daily to and from
Europe. One foggy night in the month of April, scouting planes flying as high as they could, sighted a large
fleet of airships flying toward Savannah, Georgia.
They decided that they were enemy planes making for
Savannah, to attack it. Commander Rooker in charge
ordered his company to sail over the fleet and start
dropping bombs. They were quickly destroyed, all
falling into the ocean. When our planes descended to
see how many had been destroyed and what country they
were from, they found that they were not enemy planes
at all, but were commercial planes from England, Germany, Austria and Italy. This complicated matters
more and diplomatic communications failed to smooth

308
out the difficulties. England refused to accept an explanation or apology and all the other countries took
sides with her. Our Cabinet officers held a conference.
They decided that England and the other countries,
knowing our weakened condition, had intended to join
the enemy all along and were only waiting for an
excuse, but they now knew that with all these countries
against them, without some aid or new discovery, the
cause was lost. General Pearson said "Colonel Gordon
was right. We should have asked the help of France
and Canada long before this. We must now seek aid
from any country that is friendly to us. We went to
the rescue of the Allies in the darkest days of the World
War and surely some of them will stand by us in this,
our greatest hour of need."
In May, 1931, England, Germany, Italy and Austria
joined forces against the United States. The wealth of
the United States had caused so much jealousy that it
now began to look as tho Uncle Sam were a lone eagle
against the world. England began to land her forces
and establish a base in Canada, and the War Council,
knowing that England would attack the Eastern Coast,
made all preparations to try to protect the Northern
border and the Eastern Coast, withdrawing forces from
other strategic points to try to protect the North and
the Eastern part of the United States.
In the latter part of the month, England and the
other allied enemy forces sailed across the Atlantic,
bringing their entire fleets on the water escorted by
thousands of modern airplanes. They had been preparing for war for years; had built fast hydroplanes

309
which could travel on the water at more than 150
miles an hour. When this fleet arrived off the Atlantic Coast, the United States air patrol attacked
them, but were so far outnumbered that it was
futile. The patrol was quickly destroyed. All of
the United States commercial planes were stopped from
carrying mail, passengers or express across the Atlantic.
The enemies were now in position to blockade the United
States on every side. The Japanese, Spanish and Mexican planes were patrolling the Gulf of Mexico and the
Pacific Coast. We were now in a worse position than
the Allies were in 1917 when they were fighting with
their backs to the wall and the United States went to
their rescue. The War Council knew that England
would now close the Northern border, shut us off from
Canada and would probably attack all along the border
sooner or later.
The United States had concentrated all the available
forces which could possibly be spared to try and forestall attacks upon Chicago and the Central part of the
country. While an attack was hourly expected in St.
Louis, part of the English, German and Italian battleships, under the protection of their air fleet, moved to
the mouth of the Mississippi River. The airplanes, numbering thousands, led the advance up the river, followed
by the hydroplanes and battleships. The planes destroyed cities and drove the people away in terror.
When this march started, the United States War Council decided to move the Infantry and Artillery as fast
as possible to try and protect the territory along the
Mississippi and prevent the advance up thru the

310
Central and Northern parts of the United States. The
enemies took charge of New Orleans and placed their
officers in control of the city. Fierce fighting continued
all the way up the river. The United States was hopelessly outnumbered and the loss of men and planes was
enormous. It began to look as if resistance was folly.
It was plain that this was a move to take charge of our
territory and showed that Japan, Spain, and Mexico
had only been waiting for the time when England and
other countries would join them to start taking over
captured cities.
The move up the Mississippi was swift. Every town
was taken over and placed under the control of English
officers. Finally, when Cairo, Illinois, was reached the
United States had perfected a new invention for dropping chemicals from airplanes into the water and then
using an electric current from an airplane to discharge
the chemical hundreds of miles away.
When the enemy advanced and the airplane attack
was on at Cairo, the inhabitants had been moved to
Louisville and Cincinnati and there was no attempt to
try to save the city. The plan was to let the enemy
hydroplanes and battleships move up the river and
destroy them by the powerful electric charge in the
water. When they had completed great destruction in
Cairo, the hydroplanes and light battle cruisers which
followed up the advance, taking charge of cities, moved
up to the mouth of the Ohio to land and take charge
of Cairo.
Colonel Walter Kennelworth had been sent to Cairo
with a new plane which had been completed by the

311
Major Electric Co. This plane was equipped with an
electric machine which could take the electric current
from the air, charge into the water, and destroy battleships for miles in every direction. He was circling the
sky at a high altitude and watching for an opportunity.
Finally, seeing the airplanes receding from Cairo when
they thought they had completed the destruction, he
pressed a button and turned loose the powerful electric
ray. In less than a minute every cruiser and hydroplane was blown to pieces or burnt up by the electric
current. The enemy lost every man on board their
ships. While Cairo had been almost completely destroyed, this was the first real victory for the United
States since Colonel Gordon destroyed the "Tokyo J-1."
The news was flashed all over the United States and
people on the Eastern Coast, from Boston to Miami,
who feared destruction at any minute, breathed a sigh
of relief and hoped that this would turn the tide. The
old-timers talked about the Yankee ingenuity and said
that the brains of the United States were the greatest
in the world and would find a way to overcome any
obstacle and defeat the enemies no matter how powerful they were.
After this disaster to the hydroplanes which had
been marching up the Mississippi, the enemy air fleet
ceased its attacks for awhile, but about the end of June,
an air fleet swarmed over Cairo, landed without much
resistance, and officers were put in charge of the town.
The United States had already asked France to come
to their rescue and implored Canada to forbid England
or any other foreign countries to cross their borders to

312
attack the Northern and Eastern borders of the United
States. France had quickly responded and informed
the United States Government that they stood ready to
order their air fleet to the United States or to attack
England and Germany at home. This was another piece
of good news which cheered the country and put courage into the hearts of the soldiers who had been fighting
for more than a year against such great odds and had
been meeting with such disastrous defeats. The newspapers were optimistic, but the Government officials
knew that the odds were still greatly against us and
that we were out-classed and outnumbered in the air,
where the decisive battles would be fought.

313
CHAPTER XXVIII

ON July 4th, 1931, the people all over the United
States were celebrating the victory at Cairo where
the English and German battleships and hydroplanes
had been destroyed. Everything had been quiet and
there had been no more air attacks on the cities. A
large fleet of the enemies' planes were seen constantly
scouting up and down the Mississippi. Colonel Gordon had sent out a scouting expedition with some of the
planes equipped with powerful searchlights and they
had discovered several mother supply ships, like the
"Tokyo," anchored at great heights above Cairo. He
knew that this meant that preparations were being made
to attack St. Louis and continue the advance up the
Mississippi, that the enemy was making for Chicago
and the Great Lakes to form a line across the United
States so that their airplanes could control this territory,
shut off any attacks from the West while they advanced
on the Eastern and Northern borders of the United
States.
The Nation's birthday brought more good news.
Canada informed the United States that she would join
hands with her, order England's forces to leave Canadian territory and forbid them to cross Canada to
attack the United States. This news was received in
Washington just before the President delivered his an-

314
nual Independence address. While his speech was
short, he called attention to the fact that this was the
155th anniversary of the independence of the United
States and that the liberty of this country was threatened greater than at any time since the days of the
Declaration of Independence, but stated that cheering
news had just come from Canada which would be a
great help; that France, our old friend, who had stood
by us before, had also come to our rescue and that there
was room for hope. The recent victory of Cairo was of
great importance. The new inventions which were rapidly being completed would surely save the United
States in her hour of greatest need. He urged the
people to be courageous, not leave their cities or desert
their homes unless absolutely necessary. While no one
could be sure of the end, he hoped that a decisive victory
would be gained within a few months.
Colonel Gordon reported what the scouting planes had
discovered and said that this could mean but one thing,
that the enemy is concentrating at Cairo and that
the next attacks would be on St. Louis, then probably
Louisville, Cincinnati, and Chicago. At a conference
of the War Council, he suggested that there was no use
risking the lives of the women and children in these
cities; that arrangements should be made to move them
to places of safety at once, that camps should be established in the Catskills and Adirondack Mountains where
they could remain until the danger had passed. The
Council, after discussing the matter, decided that this
would prove to be a bad move on the part of the Government because it would disclose their weakened condi-

315
tion to the enemy who might be scouting around St.
Louis at high altitudes and would see the people being
moved away and know that the country was frightened
and make an attack immediately. The Council decided
to prepare for an attack, believing that with the help
of Canada and France, this country would emerge a
victor.
In the early part of August, 1931, the attack upon
St. Louis started. The United States had concentrated
every available force there. Canada had sent her airplanes to patrol the Northern border, enabling the
United States to withdraw more forces to protect the
Central part of the country. The battle raged on and
off, day and night. There were attacks and counterattacks. The United States factories were turning out
airplanes now at the rate of more than 1000 per day.
The Henry Motor Company of Detroit had made great
improvements on bombing and scouting planes and were
turning them out rapidly. A new long-range gun had
been completed which would reach the enemy's planes
at greater heights and this proved to be of great value
in the battle of St. Louis. On the third day of the
battle, General Pearson ordered Colonel Gordon and
Colonel Kennelworth to lead their men against the
Southern and Eastern wings of the enemy. They succeeded in bringing down over 500 of the enemy's planes,
and the United States in the encounter only lost about
200 planes. This was very encouraging and General
Pearson ordered more of the reserves thrown into the
fight on the following day and this seemed just what
the enemy was waiting for. One mistake after an-

316
other was made by the subordinate officers of the United
States in carrying out instructions for attacking. The
bombing planes ran short of ammunition and were destroyed by the enemies in trying to return to their bases
for supplies. The enemy had concentrated more than
30,000 planes for this giant attack on St. Louis. Buildings were being destroyed daily and the loss of life was
great. Frightened women and children were rushing in
every direction only to get into the path of the exploding bombs. The enemy's planes proved superior,
larger and better-manned. Their large supply ships
anchored at high altitudes enabled them to get in their
effective work of destruction when the United States
planes ran out of ammunition.
After the battle had waged for 14 days, with the
United States losing, thousands of planes, the cause
seemed to be hopeless and St. Louis was surrendered.
The situation was getting more desperate all the time
and the people again were losing hope. The large loss
of airships at the battle of St. Louis had weakened the
U. S. Army regardless of the rapidity with which new
planes were being turned out. The enemy took charge
of St. Louis and moved part of their supply bases there.
The food situation was acute thruout the country.
Farmers had been afraid to go to the field to plant anything. Canada was not able to supply all of our needs
and we were blockaded on the South, East and West.
The Cabinet now awoke to the fact that many mistakes
had been made and that the situation instead of improving was growing rapidly worse.
Before the fall of St. Louis or the news of it had had

317
time to be fully understood by the people all over the
United States, the English and the Germans attacked
the Northern border, making for Chicago. The lines
were tightly drawn, the enemy was still holding the
Western Coast and it now meant only a matter of capturing Chicago, close up the lines between Chicago and
St. Louis, and complete the enemy's lines across the
Central part of the United States. Council after council was held while the fighting was going on around the
Great Lakes. The Government rushed reinforcements
and the new long-range gun on our large cruising airships was able to do effective work for a long time in
protecting Chicago. England lost heavily in the
battle around the Great Lakes because Canada was
helping us there, but the blow was heavy to the United
States. Our losses in men and planes were tremendous.
In the early part of September, 1931, it was plain
from the skirmishes which had been taking place around
the Great Lakes that the enemy was trying to attack
Chicago and it was only a question of time when they
would break thru and make the attack. The United
States officers were well aware of the fact that if Chicago fell into the hands of the enemy, it would place
the United States at a greater disadvantage than ever
to defend the Eastern Coast. The United States War
Council decided to urge France to attack England and
Germany and make them withdraw forces from the
United States to protect their home cities. France was
well equipped with airplanes and could rapidly destroy
the large cities in England and Germany and she was
the only country on the other side that we could look

318
to to help us. When America's appeal was received in
France, the President of France sent the following message to our Government:
"France is mindful of the perilous position in which the
Land of Liberty is now placed. She has not forgotten the days
when she came to your rescue during the struggles of the
young republic, and you proved that you did not forget when
your loyal sons crossed the Atlantic to help save France when
she was fighting with her back to the wall in 1917. We placed
the Statue of Liberty in the harbor of New York as a signal
light to the world to welcome the oppressed from every land
to the Land of Liberty. It has ever stood as a beacon light
of truth, liberty and justice to all. We now stand ready to
defend that statue and its principles. We appreciate the
generosity of the American people toward us in the past and
now extend them every aid within our power. Our supplies
and forces are at your disposal."
About this time England and Germany knew that
France was getting ready to aid the United States and
they had been preparing to enlist the aid of other countries in order to complete the victories already won and
gain control of the United States and divide up the
territory. On September 6th, France made the first
attack upon London and the same night attacked Berlin
from the air, destroying many buildings, with the result
that there was a large loss of life. Quickly following
this, England, Germany, Austria, Spain, Italy and
Japan called upon the other countries with whom they
had treaties to join them in the final battles against the
United States, promising a division of the spoils. All
the world had become so jealous of the prosperity and

319
success of the United States previous to this War of
the Air that they were eager to join in the conquest and
share in the great gold supply that had been gathered
from all parts of the world by the United States. Turkey and Russia were the first to join the enemy; then
quickly followed Rumania, Denmark, Greece, Hungary,
Morocco and Portugal. These new supporters to the
enemy’s cause rushed their airplane fleets to the Eastern shores of the United States; sent aid to England and
Germany to help hold off France and keep the enemy
from having to withdraw any forces from the United
States to protect their own countries.
The enemy, knowing that they now had practically
all of Europe against the United States, were confident
that it would only be a matter of a few weeks to take
Chicago, Boston, New York and Washington, then make
their own terms and the United States would be forced
to accept. The United States knew that the most desperate battle of the war was now impending and another council was held. They were expecting the first
blow to be struck in Chicago. The enemy’s reinforcements had arrived and were scattered in every direction.
The night of October 1st proved to be one of the worst
so far of the war. The enemy attacked Omaha, Kansas City, Denver, Cincinnati, Louisville, Milwaukee and
St. Paul. The forces from Mexico attacked El Paso,
San Antonio, Galveston and Houston. The greater part
of the United States forces being concentrated around
Chicago and the East, this scattered attack all over the
South, West and North was disorganizing to our forces.
There was great loss of life and property in all of these

320
cities because they were not properly prepared for the
attack which came suddenly and unexpectedly.
On the morning of October 2nd a Council was held
and it was decided to immediately send as many airplanes as possible to help protect these cities because
an attack was expected again that night. This was just
exactly what the enemy wanted, -- to get the United
States to scatter forces, withdrawing part of their armies
which were protecting Chicago.
On the night of October 2nd the enemy concentrated an attack of more than 50,000 planes against
Chicago and broke thru the United States lines on every
side. England, Germany and Russia turned loose their
giant dreadnought battle planes, the largest that had
ever yet been used in the War in the Air. Many of these
planes carried 12- to 36-inch guns. They were equipped
with the latest improved 12-cylinder motors; were operated by electricity as well as gasoline. These giant
planes could be supplied with power thru the air by
radio current. The attack was well-timed and they had
every advantage of the United States forces. The first
attack destroyed Chicago’s great skyscrapers. The
Board of Trade Building, Post Office and other Government buildings were completely destroyed. Loss of
life was appalling. Over a million people lost their
lives. More defenseless women and children were killed
than in any other battle during the war.
When the sun rose over the greaty City of Chicago
on the morning of October 3rd, buildings were smouldering in ruins in every direction. It was the greatest
destruction that had ever been in the history of the

321
world. No mortal tongue could describe the terrifying
sights. There was a brief respite. As the sun rose the
enemy’s planes which had wreaked their vengeance,
withdrew. The United States had lost more than 25,000
planes and their best aviators had gone down in this
terrible disaster.
Colonel Gordon and Colonel Kennelworth had done
wonderful work and fortunately their lives had been
preserved for future use to their country. As Colonel
Gordon made his way to headquarters to report to
General Pearson, he thought of what he had read in
the Acts 2: 17: “And it shall come to pass in the last
days, saith God, I will pour out of my Spirit upon all
flesh: and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy,
and your young men shall see visions, and your old men
shall dream dreams: and I will shew wonders in heaven
above, and signs in the earth beneath; blood, and fire,
and vapour of smoke.” He thought of how he had
dreamed and prophesied and how he had believed the
Bible knowing that these terrible things would come in
the latter days. As he saw the blood, the fire, the smoke
and the ruined city, for a moment he wondered why
God should permit such destruction as this in order that
the Scriptures might be fulfilled, but then he thought
of what he had read in Isaiah 2: 2: “And he shall
judge among the nations, and shall rebuke many people;
and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and
their spears into pruninghooks; nation shall not lift up
sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any
more.” He prayed to God to hasten the day when men
shall not make war any more.

322
The United States officers knew now that if they
held out, Chicago would be completely annihilated because England’s giant bombing planes were able to destroy every building and kill every living soul. General
Pearson called all the commanding officers together and
they quickly agreed that with the enemy outnumbering them 50 to 1, another attack would be soon over
with and that it was a useless sacrifice of human life
and their remaining planes to offer resistance. But
before surrendering, they decided to ask the consent of
the President and his Cabinet. The President hastily
called the Cabinet together and when they assembled,
their faces were grave. They all knew what had happened the night before in Chicago. The President with
sadness in his voice read the decision of the commanding Generals and said: “This is the gravest crisis this
country has ever faced. To surrender may mean the
loss of our country and our liberty; to go on and fight
may mean even worse. To surrender Chicago and wait
for time to determine the next move may be the wisest
plan. We can only trust to God and hope. What is
your decision, gentlemen?” Not a man rose to discuss
the matter. One by one they answered: “It seems best
to permit our commanding officers to surrender Chicago.”
News was quickly flashed to headquarters at Chicago
and about 10 A.M. the white flag was hoisted from the
few remaining tall buildings and a large plane was sent
out to circle the sky with white flags floating from its
wings. As soon as Chicago was surrendered, the enemy
planes and land forces were brought up and they

323
closed the gap between Chicago and St. Louis, leaving
the Central lines intact and the Western lines holding
the Pacific Coast.
The New York Stock Exchange closed to prevent
complete panic because the people were panic-stricken
and selling stocks regardless of price. They soon discovered that the enemy had bases for supplies and
ships all up and down the Atlantic and in the Gulf of
Mexico. They were in control of the Northern border
and in position to attack the Eastern Coast from the
North, South, East and West. There was no minimizing
the seriousness of the situation. The fall of Chicago
had broken the heart of the American people. They
were panic-stricken and it looked as tho for the first
time in history, Old Glory would trail the dust. There
was a great War Council held. To make a plea for
peace at this time meant surrender to the enemy and
accepting any terms that they might want to dictate.
The leaders of the War Council were puzzled. They
didn’t know what move to make next since they were
overwhelmed by great odds. The United States was
practically alone in the fight. France and Canada were
the only countries which had not joined forces against
the United States. When the news of the fall of Chicago reached France, they realized that America was
doomed.
The United States Government officials knowing the
seriousness of the situation made no attempt to conceal
it, but decided to play for time. They replied to the
note from the enemy and asked for an armistice to
last thirty days, in which neither side would make any

324
attack until they discussed plans to see if it were possible
to arrive at any acceptable terms. The enemy taking
this as an admission of defeat and weakness on the part
of the United States granted 15 days’ time for a discussion of terms, and sent the following note:
The Allied Powers demand the complete surrender of the
United States and a division of territory; Japan to have the
Western coast, England to have the Eastern coast and Northern territory bordering on Canada; Mexico to have Texas,
and Spain to have the territory along the Mississippi and Gulf
of Mexico. The United States is to turn over to the Allied
Powers its entire gold supply and the people to submit to the
various Governments to which the territory is allotted and
there is to be no longer any United States of America. If
the Government of the United States refuses to accept these
terms, we will destroy Boston, New York, Philadelphia and
Washington, and take charge of the Eastern coast of the
United States. Your answer must be received within the
allotted time.

325
CHAPTER XXIX

WHEN these terms were received, everyone was
gloomy at headquarters. The President called
his Cabinet for a conference. A United War Council
was also called, and after a long discussion, they were
forced to admit that it was not only a probability but
a possibility that the enemy would take New York
City, capture the Eastern ports, and Washington, and
then dictate any terms they might desire. To submit
to the terms already offered would mean ruin and disgrace but the question was what to do. Men high up
and Government officials who had relied upon their
judgment before, now realized that one mistake after
the other had placed the country in this terrible position. Colonel Charles Manson, a descendant of the
family of General Lee, arose and asked the War Council if he might have permission to speak. It was
promptly granted because he was a man highly respected for his good judgment, and one who had had
advocated the building of greater air fleets and preparedness years before the war started. His speech
was as follows:
GENERAL PEARSON AND SONS OF LIBERTY: This country
now faces the gravest situation since the days of Washington
and the winter at Valley Forge. We are not only menaced
by England, our old enemy, but practically by the whole
world. France now is our only friend. The enemy is in

326
control and can attack from every side. It is a time to think,
and think seriously; a time for action rather than words.
We need the man of the hour, and in times past, the United
States has always produced that man. I am a great believer
in the Bible. I have read the predictions made by Colonel
Robert Gordon ever since he was a very young man. Just
what is happening now he predicted years ago. He has made
some remarkable inventions. Was born under the sign which
astrologers call the Ascendant Sign of the United States, the
sign Gemini, ruled by Mercury, the Messenger of the Gods.
This sign is symbolized by the ancients as the double-bodied
sign. It is a sign of genius and intellect. Ancient mythology
tells us that one of the twins was a great warrior, and his
brother a great inventor and that he invented all of the war
instruments which helped his brother to win his victories. He
was said to be so swift and shrewd that he had wings on his
heels and wings on his shoulders. Could sip the wine from
the cups of the Gods while they were drinking, without getting
caught.
This sign has always symbolized the United States and
Yankee ingenuity. The greatest inventions that have ever
been were made by United States inventors. The airplane was
invented here, the submarine, the great guns which have been
used in war, the steamboats, electricity, radio, and other valuable inventions too numerous to mention. From what I know
and have read, I still hope and believe that the United States
has the brains to outwit the entire world. I believe this because it is the land of liberty, because there never has been a
nation to conquer it. The United States has never been an
aggressor, never entered a war on its own accord. I believe
that God is with us and that this is the country established
for God’s kingdom.
I have read the Bible and followed Colonel Gordon’s writings
and believe with St. Luke, Chap. 7: 22, “Then Jesus answered and said unto them ‘Go your way and tell John what
things ye have seen and heard, how that the blind see, the
lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are

327
raised, to the poor the gospel is preached, but what went ye
out for to see -- a prophet -- yea, I say unto you, and much
more than a prophet, for I say unto you, Among those that are
born of woman, there is not a greater prophet than John the
Baptist, but he that is least in the kingdom of God is greater
than he.’”
I say to you, gentlemen, that I believe there is not a greater
prophet than Colonel Gordon. Further, I believe that he is
the greatest inventor that the United States has ever produced,
and believe that he can save the situation or find some solution
of the problem. The Army Officers made a mistake not to
listen to Colonel Gordon when he offered them advice and
told them he could complete an invention to save the country.
I believe the prophecy of Daniel which has often been referred to by Colonel Gordon, Chap. 7: 27, “And kingdom and dominion, and the greatness of kingdom under the
whole heaven, shall be given to the people of the saints of the
Most High, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all
dominions shall serve and obey him.” I believe that refers to
the United States. If we can win this war, then as we are
one against the world, it shall be a kingdom of the United
World. In my judgment it would be wise to place Colonel
Robert Gordon in supreme command and follow his instructions to the letter.
After Colonel Manson had ceased talking and sat
down, complete silence reigned for several minutes. The
War Council knew that there were only three more days
left until the time of the armistice was up when the
enemy would attack. General Pearson was the first
to rise. He said, “Gentlemen of the Council, I have
known Colonel Gordon ever since he entered the service.
I interceded for him and obtained his release from
prison. He has proved to be one of the most valuable
men that we have had in the Aviation Corps. His
bravery and genius have surpassed all others. I am

328
willing to surender my office to him and if agreeable to
the rest of you I make a motion that he be made Supreme Commander of the United States Army and we
will abide by his decision.”
General Pearson was held in great respect by the
Army officers, and his judgment was not questioned. A
vote was taken and it was unanimous.
General Pearson arose and said, "Colonel Gordon, by
the authority and power vested in me, I now confer
upon you the title of the Supreme Commander of the
Armies of the United States and place upon your shoulders the greatest burden ever placed on any man. Our
country’s life hangs in the balance. The situation is
desperate. Something must be done and done quickly.
We must give an answer to the enemy, and when that
answer is given, it either settles our doom forever or if
we can win, means that the Stars and Stripes will ever
stand supreme to the world. Sir, what have you to say?"
Supreme Commander Gordon arose. His face showed
new responsibility which rested upon his shoulders. He
said simply, “I thank you for the honor and confidence,
but before completely accepting I want to ask if I may
have the unanimous consent of the entire War Council
to carry out my plans no matter how absurd they may
seem to the War Council.” The entire Council arose
in a body and voted their unanimous consent. General
Pearson then said “Supreme Commander Robert Gordon, we await your orders.” He saluted and sat down.
Supreme Commander Gordon arose and said, “Dispatch
immediately the following answer to the enemy’s Headquarters.

329
“‘The Government of the United States of America, the land
of Liberty, refuses your terms and will never surrender or
accede to any of your demands. You may strike as soon as
you are ready. We have not yet begun to fight.’”
When he had finished speaking, there was not a whisper. He sat down and Colonel Walter Kennelworth
arose and said: “Gentlemen of the War Council, you
have heard Supreme Commander Gordon’s answer to
the enemy. You must know and realize that in hurling defiance like this at the enemy, there is something
which gives him supreme confidence. He knows exactly
what he has and what he is going to do, and you can
rely upon him in this emergency.” Colonel Kennelworth saluted his Supreme Commander Gordon and
said, “I await your orders, Sir.”
Supreme Commander Gordon said, “I appoint
Colonel Walter Kennelworth as aide-de-camp in carrying out my plans. I appoint Captain Edna Kennelworth second aide and confer upon her the title of
Colonel.” He turned to the Council and there was not
a dissenting voice.
When Supreme Commander Gordon had finished his
appointments and gave his instructions to his officers,
General Pearson arose and said, “Supreme Commander
Gordon, I do not wish to in any way inquire into your
plans or interfere with any course which you may pursue, you have my heartiest support, but if you don’t
mind, I should like to have you explain to me what the
trouble has been in the past, why we have been outclassed and have lost the war thus far and what is now
the remedy or what you propose to do.”

330
Supreme Commander Gordon replied: “The trouble
in the past has been that the enemy used noiseless airplanes. Our next great handicap was the fact that they
could rise to heights to which we are unable to attain,
giving them the advantage in the fighting. Of course,
we have been hopelessly outnumbered from the start,
by that I mean, in the amount of equipment. Another
thing that we need and must have, which the enemy
already has, is an airship that can be anchored and remain anchored in the air for an indefinite length of time.
We need a ship that can take its power from the air,
giving it an unlimited cruising radius. We need other
ships for cruising purposes and scouters that can take
their power from the air, not having to return to the
base at any time for fuel or ammunition, working from
a base in the air at all times. The next and most important thing we need is an invisible plane. An invisible, noiseless plane will be one of the things to beat
the enemy. When our planes can travel high or low, no
longer be seen or heard, we will be able to obtain information about the enemy’s position and plans and
thereby know their weak points, when and where to
attack.
“The great mistake that the army officers have made
from time to time was in not listening to the counsel of
younger men. By this, I do not mean myself alone.
My authority for this is taken from the Bible, -- Prov.
20: 18: ‘Every purpose is established by counsel, and
with good advice make war.’ Prov. 24: 6: ‘For the
wise counsel thou shalt make thy war, and in a multitude of counsellors there is safety.’ There have not

331
been enough counsellors and enough changes in plans
at the proper time when the enemy was winning.
“My strength and power is in the Lord and I shall
follow the rules laid down in the Bible in my future
campaign. 2 Samuel 22: 33: ‘God is my strength and
power: and he maketh my way perfect.’ 1 Chronicles
5: 22: ‘For there fell down many slain, because the war
was of God and they dwelt in their steads until the
captivity.’ This great War in the Air is according to
the will of God and to fulfill the Scriptures and to work
out God’s plan for an eternal united kingdom of the
world. You may wonder at my confidence and my defiance of the enemy at this time when it looks as if our
chance for victory is absolutely impossible. I refer
you to St. Luke 1: 37: ‘For with God nothing shall
be impossible.’ Again Luke 1: 52: ‘He hath put down
the mighty from their seats, and exalted them of low
degree.’ I believe that if it is the will of God for us
to win he will give us the power to bring down the
mighty who have tried to oppress and destroy this nation, the land of liberty.
“Read Acts 17: 26: ‘And hath made of one blood
all nations of men, for to dwell on all the face of the
earth; and hath determined the times before appointed,
and the bounds of their habitation.’ All men are
brothers and it is God’s will that they should dwell together on the earth in peace. This great war, the last
of all, is brought about to teach men that they can not
defy the laws of God.
“Romans 8: 25 and 31: ‘For we are saved by hope:
but hope that is seen, is not hope: for what a man seeth,

332
why doth he yet hope for? But if we hope for that we
see not, then do we with patience wait for it. What
shall we then say to these things? If God be for us,
who can be against us?’ I am confident that God is for
us, that he established this land of America never to
be destroyed. Then no matter how dark the situation
is now, even if all the nations of the world join against
us, if God is for us they shall not prevail.
“Getting back to what we need to defeat the enemy,
man has always found a way to do things. The genius
of America has never been defeated. We only have to
go back over the histories of wars in which America has
engaged to find evidence that in emergency they have
always found a way out, because they were led by the
divine power of Almighty God. In time of war, man
has dug tunnels under the earth in order that he could
pass safely, concealing and protecting himself. During
the great World War, Germany was the first to succeed
with the submarine, passing secretly under the water,
doing great damage and at the same time, suffering very
little damage to her submarines. While the submarine
was what caused her to lose the war, it came very near
enabling her to win it. Man has dug tunnels thru mountains and under rivers when it was impossible almost
to go over them or get thru any other way. In New
York City, in 1927, one of the greatest engineering feats
up to that time was completed, when a tunnel for vehicular traffic was opened from New York City under
the Hudson River to the State of New Jersey.
“What we now need and need more than anything
else is a Tunnel thru the Air. With such a tunnel and

333
noiseless, invisible planes so that we can pass thru the
air without being interfered with or harmed and without being seen or heard, our victory is assured. To
make a Tunnel thru the Air is not at all impossible.
It is just as easy as to put a tunnel under the earth or
drive a submarine under the water. While the air is
invisible, it is one of the strongest forces that we have.
If the water can be separated or a submarine can push
it each way and travel under it, if dirt can be
removed and a man put a tunnel under a river or a
mountain, we can find a way to put a Tunnel thru the
Air so others can not see us, hear or enter unless we
so desire.
“One of my first plans will be to put a Tunnel thru
the Air. With a Tunnel thru the Air from New York
City to London and Germany, our airplanes may safely
pass thru without being seen or heard and the enemy
will be unable to attack them, placing us in position to
leave the tunnel at any time and return to it for safety.
“We need a Tunnel thru the Air from the Great
Lakes to New Orleans and the Gulf of Mexico so that
our planes may pass safely thru this tunnel, take observations of the enemy’s position without being seen or
heard, and when necessary leave this tunnel, attack
the enemy, return to the tunnel again for protection.
We can also have a Tunnel thru the Air so that when
the enemy’s planes enter this tunnel and do not understand it, they will be unable to get out of it and we
may keep them there in prison as long as we wish, capture or destroy them.
“I have the plan already worked out for this Tunnel

334
thru the Air. I expect to accomplish it by the use of
certain light rays and light waves, sending a strong
current thru the air on one side and another current
on the other side anywhere from 100 yards to miles wide
and then thru another process that I have in mind,
remove the air from between these lines or currents,
making a vacuum or space between the air which will
really be a tunnel. We can drive our planes thru this
tunnel by radio rays, directing them from a great central station which I expect to build. All the aviators
know that often they run into what they call air-pockets
in the air, which means nothing more than a vacuum
made by Nature in some way and that when these airpockets are encountered an airship will drop right down
until denser layers of air are reached. If Nature can
construct a tunnel thru the air, then certainly man with
the guidance of God’s divine power can do it. It may
be hard for you to understand and believe my theories,
but they are founded on faith and the knowledge that
with God nothing is impossible.
“I have demonstrated in the past that every law laid
down in the Bible is provable, every prophecy has been
fulfilled or will be fulfilled. I again refer to Roman
1: 17: ‘For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith: as it is written, The just
shall live by faith.’ At this moment there is nothing
for this nation to hang their hope on but faith in a divine
Creator, and if I am right in my interpretations that
the United States was God’s kingdom which he created
never to be destroyed and if it is to be the united kingdom of the world, then we must live by faith. If every

335
other man, woman, and child in the United States, yea,
and the world, turns against me, I will believe and follow that faith, knowing that no power can harm me
and that no matter how many may be against me, I can
win so long as I believe in the divine Creator.
“Romans 5: 3-4: ‘And not only so, but we glory in
tribulations also: knowing that tribulation worketh patience; and patience, experience; and experience, hope.’
These trials and tribulations which we have gone thru
have brought knowledge. We have learned patience
and thru patience, experience. I propose to put that
experience and knowledge that I have gained in the past
into execution to preserve and protect my country which
means more than life to me.”
When Supreme Commander Gordon had finished talking, there was new life and new hope in the face of
every man in the room. It was plain to see that they
had caught the divine inspiration; that their faith had
been strengthened and that they now believed that God
would lead them safely to victory and preserve the nation which He had created to be a land of love and
liberty.
General Pearson arose and said: “Supreme Commander Gordon, I offer you my heartfelt thanks and
sincere gratitude. You have placed in my heart a new
hope; made me understand our Lord and Saviour Jesus
Christ better than ever before. I believe I bespeak the
sentiments of the entire Council and that they, too, have
supreme confidence in you and now understand what
the great faith that you have had in your Creator has
done for you. Had the world and all of us understood

336
the Bible and God’s plan as you do, this war would
never have taken place. I plainly see now that it is
God’s intention to teach man thru trials, sorrow and
bitter experiences to reverence and respect the law
which he has laid down for man to follow. Man must
learn to love his neighbor as himself and to do unto
others as he would have them do unto him. When that
law is understood and obeyed, then men will no longer
want to make war because war is not based on brotherly
love, but on greed, jealousy and hatred. When we decided to surrender Chicago, I felt that that meant the
end of our glorious country. I could see no hope, no
way out, but you have shown us the way and our combined faith in you, together with the inspiration from
our holy Father, will guide us to victory thru your leadership. We are with you, in all confidence, to victory.”
Supreme Commander Gordon then ordered each officer and commander to return to his respective post of
duty and to await further orders. He said, “If my
plans develop as I think, you will not need to take further action.” He asked for the use of the largest building in New York, “The Mammouth” and wanted the entire top floor of this 110-story building at 42nd street and
Broadway. His wishes were immediately granted. Was
told that the Government already had taken over control of all the large buildings in the United States and
that he might use the building as he chose. Supreme
Commander Gordon departed from Washington that
night in the old “St. Marie” which he had ordered
brought to Washington to convey him back, taking with
him Colonel Walter Kennelworth. He had instructed

337
Colonel Edna Kennelworth to meet him at the Mammouth Building in New York. On arrival he proceeded at once to put the top floor in order for the
“Demon of Death” to be moved in. Colonel Kennelworth and another assistant were sent at once to the
Adirondacks to the secret hiding of “Marie the Angel
of Mercy,” to test out this giant Ezekiel airplane, and
bring it to New York City. The machine for distributing the sleeping gas which would reach a radius of
700 miles, was made in readiness on the top floor of
the building. “Marie the Angel of Mercy” was in perfect working order, and arrived in New York ship-shape.
The whole United States was waiting in anxiety because it was known that within a few days the armistice
would end and the United States must either fight or
surrender. The people in Washington, Boston, Philadelphia, and New York had not slept for more than a
week. They knew that an air attack had been threatened and feared the consequences. Supreme Commander Gordon dispatched the sleeping gas by “Marie
the Angel of Mercy,” and it was distributed to the
planes all across the country. Colonel Kennelworth returned at the end of the second day in “Marie the Angel
of Mercy,” after distributing the sleeping gas and giving
instructions how to use it. The “Demon of Death” was
tested out and found to be in good working order. For
many months previous to this, all of the large cities
had been kept in darkness because they feared night
attacks.

338
CHAPTER XXX

WHEN the commanders of the Allied Enemy in 
Chicago and St. Louis received the defiance 
hurled at them on October 15, 1931, this reply was
signed by Supreme Commander Robert Gordon. The
English, German, Austrian, and Russians had never
heard of this United States officer before and were at
a loss to undertand whom the United States had placed
in supreme command. The reply was conveyed to Japanese and Spanish headquarters in Mexico and the
Japanese quickly understood just who Supreme Commander Robert Gordon was and feared that he had
made some wonderful invention which had made him
confident of winning the war. The Japanese Generals,
knowing what this might mean and fearing the great
genius, Robert Gordon, asked for an allied war council
to convene before making another attack. On October
21st it was decided that the War Council should be held
in the City of Mexico. The allied enemy were confident that the United States would not make any attack
in the near future, but would wait for them to make
the next move. They felt that the great losses which
had been suffered by the United States Army at the
battle of Chicago placed them in no position to make
an immediate attack and that they would try to
strengthen their position for the next attack by the al-

339
lied enemy. It was decided that the commanding
generals of all the allied enemy nations should proceed
at once to the City of Mexico to hold a council and
decide what the wisest and next move should be. They
left in the dead hours of the night in the fastest planes
and those which could rise to the highest altitudes, enabling them to travel noiselessly and at a height at which
they could not be detected or captured. The scouting
and cruising planes were left to patrol the lines between
Chicago, St. Louis and New Orleans and watch for
any move that might be made on the part of the United
States forces.
When the Council had convened in the City of Mexico,
General Nagato, the commander of the Japanese army,
arose and said: “Supreme Commander Robert Gordon
now in charge of the United States forces is well known
to us. He is the man who made the first flight from
New York City to Japan in 1927, traveling at a speed
of more than 300 miles per hour. He is the man who
invented the muffler which made our airplanes noiseless.
We bought it from him and it helped us to successfully
wage this war. When we attacked the Rio Grande and
were preparing to bombard El Paso, Gordon, we believe,
was the man who successfully brought down our greatest ship, the ‘Tokyo J-1.’ Later we captured Gordon
at the battle of San Francisco. He was flying one of
our planes which was on board the Tokyo. We found
that he had a wonderful Pocket-Radio by which we
could communicate without any sound passing thru the
air, thus avoiding our orders being intercepted. After
negotiating with him, we gave him his freedom, con-

340
ducted him safely back to the American lines in consideration of his turning over to us his secret PocketRadio, which we worked successfully for many months.
Finally it failed to work and we have always believed
that he invented something by which he could prevent
our communications.
"He is one of the ablest inventors that the United
States has. The fact that he has been placed in command means that he must have made some great discovery or new invention which has inspired the United
States with confidence of winning the war. While we
have all the advantage in numbers, both in men, ships
and ammunition, and to all appearance the United
States is hopelessly crippled and will not be able to hold
out much longer, one new invention by this man Gordon
may mean our defeat. It is my opinion that the facories in Detroit, Michigan, have been working on some
of his new discoveries. Our next attack should be directed at Detroit. We should capture that city and
destroy the factories of the big automobile concerns and
other manufacturing concerns there. All of these manufacturing concerns have long since been commandeered
by the United States Government and are working on
war weapons and ammunition."
When Colonel Nagato had finished speaking, the
Spanish, English, German, Austrian and Russian Generals discussed war plans for many days and there were
numerous disagreements before it was finally agreed
as to just what the next move should be. Finally they
united on the plan to make the next attack upon Detroit and if successful there, proceed to attack Boston,

341
New York, Washington and the Eastern Coast of the
United States.
The delay by the Allied Enemy was just what Supreme Commander Gordon wanted. It gave him time
to prepare. He had ordered the Henry Motor Company of Detroit to proceed at once to manufacture according to his plans which he sent them, two large
machines, one positive and one negative, by which he
could send currents of electricity thru the air and produce a vacuum, or as he called it, a "Tunnel thru the
Air." These plans had been worked out years before
and there was no question but what the machines would
work successfully. The Henry Motor Company had
been commandeered by the United States Government
and as soon as they received the order and plans from the
Supreme Commander, they started running day and
night working to build the two giant machines.
The fifteen days' armistice expired on October 18th,
1931. Supreme Commander Gordon was in readiness
and waited the first attack of the enemy. Less than
thirty days from the time that he ordered work started
on the machines, they reported that the machines were
completed and ready to test out. He called Colonel
Kennelworth to his office in New York and explained
to him that the great Vacuum Producer, as the machine
had been named, had been completed; ordered him to
proceed at once to Detroit and test out the machines
both for short and long distance work.
Colonel Kennelworth arrived in Detroit on November 17th. The following day tested out the Tunnel machines; reported to Supreme Commander Gordon that

342
they were working in fine shape and producing results
according to the plans. The Supreme Commander then
decided to go immediately to Detroit and establish one
of the machines at a base there and have Colonel Kennelworth take the other machine to Cincinnati and set
it up. The machine was transported secretly and successfully to Cincinnati and set up in one of the largest
buildings in the city.
On November 20th, Supreme Commander Gordon
and Colonel Kennelworth tested the Tunnel machines
over this long distance. The machines were set to produe a tunnel 100 yards wide at first and were set in
motion. The American scouting airplanes were sent
off over a described area and on entering between these
lines found that they were in a complete tunnel. They
could travel quickly back and forth thru the Tunnel
in the Air. This was a great triumph. Commander
Gordon instructed all those connected with the test to
keep it a complete secret. He knew that this was going
to be a great surprise to the enemy when they started
their next attack.
Supreme Commander Gordon had now completed
another new invention on the same plan of the radio
that he had to use in his office in New York several
years before to record conversations when the manipulators were trying to catch him in the stock market. He
had enlarged this machine so that it would record voices
3000 miles away and named it the "Tel-Talk."
On the night of November 19th, 1931, the Supreme
War Council which had convened in Mexico City broke
up and the commanding generals returned to their vari-

343
ous posts around St. Louis and Chicago. Supreme
Commander Gordon had his powerful Tel-Talk directed
so that he would get all the conversation along the lines
between Chicago, St. Louis and New Orleans. When
he went to his headquarters in Detroit on the morning
of November 20th, he went into look at his Tel-Talk,
saw that there had been a conference of the enemy held
the night before. He pushed the needle of the machine
back and turned it on; put his ear to the receiver and
listened. He found that the commanding generals had
talked over the conference in Mexico and had now decided that their next attack would be on Detroit in
order to destroy the factories there and prevent the
United States continuing making airplanes and inventions which might help them to win the war. He was
very happy to get the plans of the enemy. It was just
what he wanted. He was anxious to test the Tunnel
thru the Air, capture the enemy's planes and keep them
there because he knew when once he got them in the
Tunnel, thy would be unable to get out of it and he
could keep them suspended in the air indefinitely, moving up and down in the Tunnel, or could capture them
and destroy them. He was impatient and anxious for
and attack upon Detroit and decided to defy the enemy
and urge them on.
With the plans of the enemy in his possession, Supreme Commander Gordon decided to change the location of the Tunnel machines so as to protect the factories and large buildings in Detroit. He arranged the
machines so that when the attacking planes came over
Detroit at a high altitude, he could drop them into the

344
Tunnel thru the Air and thus prevent any harm to the
factories or buildings in Detroit. He waited patiently
for an attack upon the city, but no move of any kind
was made by the enemy. When it was near Thanksgiving, he had a great desire that the battle should
start around that time so that the United States might
have the greatest Thanksgiving in history because he
was confident that if the attack came, Detroit would be
successfully defended and the enemy for the first time
would find that we had outwitted them. He decided to
urge the enemy to make an attack on Detroit as soon
as possible, so ordered a large electric sign built with
letters twenty feet high, "DETROIT IS READY -WON'T YOU COME AND TAKE US WE WANT
TO BE YOUR THANKSGIVING TURKEY." The
sign was placed on an airplane and lighted. This plane
passed in full view of the enemy's lines at St. Louis
and Chicago. What the enemy thought of this, perhaps
no one will ever know. Colonel Manson later wrote that
this electric sign put the fear of God in the heart of
the enemy; that the Germans recalled the days when
the Yankees arrived at the time of the great World
War. The Japanese, the Spanish and the English
realized that this was not meant for a bluff and thought
they had made a mistake in allowing 15 days' armistice,
now that the United States had decided to fight again.
How they could hope to win, the enemy could not see.
They decided to teach this young, boastful commander
a lesson that he would never forget.
On Thanksgiving night, November 24th, the attack
was ordered. Supreme Commander Gordon was at din-

345
ner and a messenger interrupted him to tell him that
"Tel-Talk" had picked up an important message. He
rushed to the secret room and noticed that a conference
had been held and orders given by the enemy to attack
Detroit that night. He immediately communicated this
information secretly with the new Pocket-Radio to
Colonel Kennelworth in Cincinnati. Told him to be in
readiness to adjust the Tunnel machine and change the
location and altitude any moment that he instructed.
He ordered all the lights in the streets of Detroit to be
kept on that night. It has been the custom for many
months, since long before the attack at Chicago, to keep
all the cities in darkness at night.
He had just completed another new invention which he
called the Radium Ray. With this Ray he could locate
anything in the sky 75 to 100 miles away. He had the
Radium Ray machine in readiness to search the sky for
the first attack that night. Just before 10 o'clock he
was sweeping the sky with the Radium Ray when he
discovered the enemy planes approaching from the direction of Chicago. There was a large flock of them flying
at very high altitudes, followed by three large supply
ships. He knew that these supply ships would anchor
in the air somewhere over Detroit and the bombing
planes would make the attack. He decided to send Captain Morrison, the famous aviator who had distinguished
himself at the battle of Chicago, to lead a fleet of decoy
airplanes to meet the invading planes and to lead them
into the Tunnel thru the Air. Captain Morrison led
his swift cruisers into the air to the greatest heights
they could rise, and as they neared the approaching

346
enemy they began to turn loose the rapid-firing antiaircraft guns. As soon as the enemy discovered the
firing, they turned their searchlights on our planes,
located and started after them. Captain Morrison
obeyed orders and retreated rapidly with the other
planes following. He made straight for Detroit to the
vicinity of main buildings and factory districts with
the enemy planes in hot pursuit. Suddenly he received
a radio message from Supreme Commander Gordon to
descend very low and fly Northwest. At this time the
Supreme Commander was in communication with Colonel Kennelworth and they had adjusted the Tunnel
machines and established the Tunnel thru the Air.
Supreme Commander Gordon was atop one of Detroit's giant skyscrapers over 80 stories high watching
the action of the enemy planes. Suddenly he saw the
first battalion of more than 250 planes, which were
flying in a wedge formation, dive into the Tunnel. He
followed them with the Radium Ray and saw immediately that the Tunnel was doing its work and that the
giant battle planes were now powerless. Next came the
three giant supply ships. Following the same course as
the bombing planes, they dived into the Tunnel thru the
Air and were powerless to proceed further. Once the
planes were in the Tunnel, they were unable to communicate with headquarters or make any move because
the Tunnel was a complete vacuum and no plane could
move in it except the American planes which understood
the combination how to navigate thru the Tunnel. As
soon as Supreme Commander Gordon saw that the great
Tunnel machines were doing their miraculous work, he

347
sent another defiant message to the enemy headquarters
in Chicago and St. Louis:
We have given your first battalion a wonderful Thanksgiving reception. Won't you send some more of your famous
aviators to have Thanksgiving supper with us.
Immediately after this message was received, the commanding generals ordered a message sent to the supply
ships which were supposed to be anchored over Detroit,
asking information as to what was happening. No reply was received. This caused consternation in the
enemy camp. They knew that the first battalion had
either been captured or destroyed. The news was quickly
flashed to headquarters in the City of Mexico and General Nagato replied: "This is some devilish trick of
that genius, Gordon. Be careful what move you make.
Send out scouting planes around Detroit and ascertain
what is going on." Their fast cruising scouters were
immediately dispatched to Detroit to see what had happened to the bombing planes and the mother ships.
These planes soon came in view of the Radium Ray.
After circling high over Detroit, finally came lower and
lower until suddenly they plunged into the Tunnel thru
the Air and like the others, were powerless to move or to
communicate with their headquarters.
Supreme Commander Gordon decided to take no
chances with the captured planes which were in the
Tunnel thru the Air and ordered the sleeping gas turned
on to put all the aviators to sleep for seven days. After
waiting till after 12 o'clock for further attacks and finding the air clear with no signs of the enemy in sight,

348
he decided to retire and get some sleep. This was the
greatest day since the beginning of the war. He was
very happy and knelt to offer his thanks to Almighty God.
He said: "Lord, thou workest in mysterious ways thy
wonders to perform. I know that by faith and thru
faith were all things made. I have put my trust and
my confidence in thee. Thou hast guided me safely
and helped me protect my country in time of greatest
need. God, not my will, but thine be done, but if it
be thy will, I pray thee that when these trials and
troubles pass away and once the United Kingdom of
the World is established and all men live as brothers
according to the law of love, it be a part of thy divine
plan to return to me in safety my beloved Marie. Guide
me in this great task to protect and save my country
from the enemies who would destroy it. Amen."
November 25th, 1931, was a great day for the United
States. They had more to be thankful for than any day
since November, 1918, when the great World War had
come to a close. After conferring with his commanding
officers and Government officials, Supreme Commander
Gordon gave orders that no newspapers were to be permitted to publish anything about the attack upon Detroit, that it was to be kept strictly a secret.
There was not much to be thankful for in the camp
of the enemy. Failure of any of the planes sent out
the night before to return and no message being received
from them, made it plain that the United States was
not bluffing and that Supreme Commander Gordon knew
what he had up his sleeve when he hurled defiance at
the enemy and refused to accept any terms. They were

349
not aware of the fact that when he defied them to come
and take Detroit, he must have been anxiously awaiting
the attack and had something new that he wanted to try
out on the enemy planes, and that it had been successful. It was now a time to move cautiously. The next
and future moves must be made in a way to conserve
their resources and assure final success.
Everything was quiet and no move or attack was made
until December 7th, when the enemy held a council
and decided that a gigantic attack on Detroit should be
made; that they should concentrate a large part of their
forces there; destroy the factories and take Detroit;
then proceed to attack New York and the Eastern Coast.
The plan was to make a daylight attack and, if possible,
to surprise Supreme Commander Gordon. About 3
o'clock in the afternoon the enemy planes were seen approching from the East and West. He saw that this
was to be a gigantic attack because there was a larger
number of planes than they had used at any time since
the attack of Chicago. Before he could get the Tunnel
machines in working order and establish a wider range
in the Tunnel thru the Air, the enemy planes had begun
dropping bombs on the outskirts of the city and had
destroyed many of the smaller buildings. The United
States planes were attacked and being unable to rise
to the heights at which the enemy planes were flying,
a great many of our planes went down, but in a few
minutes the Tunnel thru the Air was in working order
and the enemy planes began to be drawn into it. Within
less than an hour more than 2500 planes had been captured. The loss of life around the city had been small

350
because the bombs which had been dropped had not
reached the thickly populated sections of the city and no
plane had been able to reach the factories or business
sections where the large buildings were. The Tunnel thru
the Air was protecting and keeping them away from
these sections. Canadian planes had come to the assistance of the United States on the Northern border and
were patrolling the other side of the river and preventing
the enemy from attacking from the North.
About 5 o'clock, the gigantic concentrated attack took
place. It was estimated that there were more than
25,000 planes of the enemy in this attack. They were
supported by about 10 supply ships which sailed at a
great distance and were attempting to anchor. Supreme
Commander Gordon knew that it was necessary to sacrifice some of the American planes in order to draw this
attacking force into the Tunnel thru the Air. He sent
more than 1000 of our best planes to meet the attack
and lead the enemy in the right direction. The enemy
turned loose their large 12-inch guns and they destroyed
our ships rapidly. Planes were falling all over Detroit.
The people were very much frightened and thought that
this was going to be another disaster such as had occurred in Chicago. Finally Captain Morrison changed
plans and led the enemy toward the Tunnel thru the
Air. Soon more than 10,000 of their planes had gone
into the Tunnel never to return again. When this large
fleet of planes went down and evidently were no longer
able to communicate with the giant supply ships which
were not yet anchored, the enemy quickly changed plans
and the supply ships sailed back toward Chicago, fol-

351
lowed by the balance of the invading fleet which had not
been captured.
When all reports were in, Supreme Commander Gordon found that the United States had lost about 400
of their best planes, but had captured more than 12,000
of the enemy planes. He was very greatly elated over
this victory because he knew that when the enemy
planes retreated, it was the first time they had ever
returned to their base without a report of victory. He
felt that this would break the morale of the enemy;
make them more cautious in the future; give him more
time now to complete his invisible airplane and the one
which would rise to any altitude. When this was completed together with other machines for establishing
Tunnels thru the Air, the balance would be easy and
a mere question of time until the enemy could all be
destroyed or put to sleep. People thruout the United
States were still in a panicky, restless state. Ever since
the attacks at Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago,
Kansas City, New Orleans and the Southern part of
Texas, every large and small town all over the country
had remained in a state of fear, expecting an attack at
any moment. Hundreds of thousands of people had
moved from the Pacific Coast and from the Central and
Eastern parts of the United States into the mountains
of the West and the Grand Canyon. They felt that
there were no large cities and nothing to attack around
the Grand Canyon and that it was the safest place to
go. Thousands of people were living in tents and there
was a great scarcity of food and much suffering.
Supreme Commander Gordon decided that the people

352
should be given some encouragement and that the news
of the failure of the second attack upon Detroit should be
given to the newspapers; thought it would encourage
and cheer the people. On the morning of December 8th,
all the newspapers thruout the United States, carried big
headlines: "DETROIT ATTACKED THE SECOND
TIME BY THE ENEMY FORCES BUT DEFEATED. THOUSANDS OF THEIR PLANES
HAVE BEEN CAPTURED. THERE HAS BEEN
PRACTICALLY NO LOSS OF LIFE AND NO
IMPORTANT BUILDINGS DESTROYED." The
papers emphasized the fact that this meant the turn of
the war and that the placing of Supreme Commander
Gordon at the head of our forces had saved the country
and that there was no longer need for any great alarm.
It was a question of only a few months till the war
would be over and the enemy would be driven from
our soil.
The defeat at the second attack of Detroit had indeed
put the fear of God in the hearts of the Enemy, but
they had not by any means lost hope. They were getting recruits rapidly from Europe. Every nation was
building airplanes as fast as the factories could turn
them out and sending them to the United States to aid
their allies. Practically every nation on the face of
the earth, outside of France, Canada and a few countries in South America and Australia, had joined
against the United States. This encouraged the Enemy
and they felt that no matter what the United States
had, in the end they would not be able to win. The
great problem now was to find out what the Americans

353
were using in order to capture the enemy planes and
what discovery they had to prevent their communications. The Enemy were unable to find out anything
about the American plans. They demanded to know
what had happened to the captured aviators, whether
they were living or dead. Supreme Commander Gordon refused to give any information whatsoever about
prisoners; replied that reports of anything in regard to
prisoners or planes would be made after the war was
over and after the Enemy had surrendered and were
ready to leave our soil. This greatly aroused the Japanese, Spanish and Germans who decided to redouble
their efforts to take Detroit and then attack the Eastern
Coast of the United States.
Days went by and everything was quiet in Detroit.
No attacks were made anywhere in the United States.
December 25th, 1931, arrived and the United States had
much to be thankful for. There was a great rejoicing
and merry-making on Christmas. Supreme Commander Gordon had a great Christmas. The Major
Electric Co. had been working on the process for making planes invisible and reported to him that they had
completed the process according to his plans and that
it was a success. They had also completed a new motor
which he had designed with 24 cylinders. This motor
was to be used in lifting our planes to great heights. It
was estimated that it would carry a ship 50 miles in
the air if necessary. A stabilizer and anchor had been
completed in accordance with his plans. The Major
Electric Co. informed him that these machines were all
ready for him to test out. He ordered these new in-

354
ventions to be sent to New York headquarters. A large
24-cylinder motor was placed in "Marie the Angel of
Mercy" and she was made an invisible airship. This
motor was able to take its power from the air.
Supreme Commander Gordon went to New York on
January 1st, 1932, leaving Colonel Morrison in charge
in Detroit and ordering General Pearson to Detroit to
hold the fort until he completed the test in New York.
Supreme Commander Gordon accompanied only by
Colonel Edna Kennelworth made the first flight in
"Marie the Angel of Mercy," ascended to a height of
more than 20 miles and anchored the "Marie" in the
air. The new inventions were a perfect success and the
machine could rise to any height and anchor and remain
as long as it was desired and was absolutely invisible.
He was now in position to construct a Tunnel thru
the Air from New York to Europe and sail the "Marie"
in safety thru it, then rise to a height of 20 to 50 miles
over any of the cities, anchor and start destruction.
"Marie the Angel of Mercy" could carry enough sleeping gas to destroy or put to sleep people over thousands
of miles of territory. After remaining anchored in the
air for two days to test "Marie the Angel of Mercy,"
Supreme Commander Gordon descended to New York,
anchored at the Mammouth Building to get a report
of what had been happening and prepare for any attack.
The Enemy were keeping quiet and making no move,
evidently trying to find out what America's new inventions were before making the next great attack.
"Marie the Angel of Mercy" was now equipped with
the Tunnel machine which would automatically put a

355
Tunnel thru the Air anywhere in any direction. The
Supreme Commander had enlarged and improved upon
the Tunnel machine or vacuum until it could be made
25 to 50 miles wide in any direction from a large city.
He had also discovered how to send ships thru the air
without an aviator, directing them by radio rays, which
would enable them to distribute sleeping gas among the
enemy's lines and prevent loss of any of his valuable
aviators. He now had confidence that every city would
be safe from an attack and no destruction could take
place. The Henry Motor Co. and the Major Electric
Co. were ordered to manufacture more of the Tunnel
machines just as fast as possible so that one might be
placed in each city in Boston, New York, Philadelphia,
Pittsburgh, Washington and Savannah, Ga., to protect
the Eastern Coast of the United States. It was the
opinion of Supreme Commander Gordon that the
Enemy would eventually concentrate their final attacks
on the Eastern shores of the United States and if unsuccessful in attacking New York and Washington, the
war would be over. He intended to be fully prepared
so that the United States would emerge victorious without much loss of life and was especially trying to protect
the women and children in the large cities.
February 15, 1932 -- Supreme Commander Gordon
was informed by the Henry Motor Co. and Major Electric Co. that the Tunnel machines were completed, that
gas-distributing machines and equipment for sending
airplanes by radio ray without an aviator to distribute
the sleeping gas were ready for delivery. Two more
"Demon of Death" machines were ready and ordered

356
sent to Washington and Boston. The Supreme Commander was hourly expecting that the enemy would
attack the Eastern Coast, concentrating on Boston, New
York and Washington. The "Tel-Talk" had recorded
conferences which had been held and plans which were
under way to concentrate the Enemy's combined forces
on the Eastern Coast. He figured that they were trying
to make improvements to overcome the defeat at Detroit because the enemy had been mystified by the new
invention which had been used to capture so many of
their planes. He was now ready and waiting for the
attack on the Eastern shore, feeling confident that he
was prepared for victory.

357
CHAPTER XXXI

APRIL 1st, 1932, arrived and no attack had been 
made.  The enemy was evidently making gigan-
tic preparations for an attack and Supreme Commander
Gordon decided to make the first move. He then sent
instructions to France to begin attacking England and
Germany again. France was well prepared with a large
number of airplanes. The attack started and they were
successful. When this news reached the enemy headquarters in the United States there was great consternation. They thought that this was the secret behind the
United States refusing to accept peace terms, but felt
that France could not hold out long alone. Spain and
Japan ordered their reserve planes from home to England and Germany to help fight France. The "TelTalk" recorded that a large fleet of planes had been sent
across the Atlantic to attack France. Supreme Commander Gordon ordered the French to go out and meet
the attack. A great battle raged over the Atlantic for
hours with the French winning. Thousands of the
enemy planes went down into the ocean. The Spanish
and Japanese withdrew. This stopped Germany and
England from striking back at France. The news
reached the enemy headquarters in the United States
and they figured that in some way the United States had
a large number of planes out guarding the Atlantic and

358
realized that the time had come to strike at the Eastern
Coast of the United States before France and the United
States could do more damage on the other side.
In June, 1932, the enemy decided to make the attack on the Eastern part of the United States. Supreme
Commander Gordon had time to make ample preparations to meet it. He had established Colonel Kennelworth in Boston with one of the sleeping-gas machines
and he remained in New York in the Mammouth
Building, with a "Demon of Death," awaiting the attack upon New York.
BATTLE OF BOSTON
On June 6th, the enemy attacked Boston. The planes
came in large numbers from every side, some from
across the water, some from the North and West.
Colonel Kennelworth let them approach within a reasonable distance and then turned loose the sleeping gas
among all the enemy planes. The aviators immediately
went to sleep and the planes all dropped slowly to the
earth and some landed on the water and were not
damaged. Hundreds after hundreds of planes followed
up, each one sharing the same fate. Of all the planes
sent out by the enemy, not one returned. Colonel
Kennelworth reported to Supreme Commander Gordon
that Boston was safe, -- that there had not been the loss
of one life and not a bomb had been dropped upon the
city.
The Commanders of the Allied Enemy armies were
unable to get any report of what had happened to the
planes that went to attack Boston. They waited until

359
the next day; and when not a plane returned and there
was no report of any kind, decided that the same fate
had befallen them as at the attack on Detroit; that the
Americans certainly had something by which they were
destroying every ship and plane which attacked them.
This was unusual and unheard of. The fact that thousands and thousands of planes had attacked Boston and
not one had escaped capture or destruction, made it
plain that Yankee ingenuity had discovered something
that was turning the tide of war in their favor. They
now knew that they had made the greatest mistake by
not pressing us hard after the fall of Chicago. They
should have refused to grant the 15 days' armistice
without demanding the surrender of the Eastern Coast.
Another great mistake was the long delay between the
attack on Detroit and the attack on Boston. This had
enabled the Americans to get better prepared. There
was no denying the painful truth. Something must
be done and done quickly. They decided to order every
plane that could possibly be spared from the Pacific
Coast and from the lines extending from New Orleans
to St. Louis and Chicago; to concentrate a supreme
attack upon New York and Washington, making Washington the final goal. Planes were concentrated and
mother ships anchored out in the Atlantic Ocean
to prepare for the attack upon New York City. This was
to be the greatest battle in all history.
On the night of June 7th, Supreme Commander Gordon had grown tired from his long vigil waiting for
an attack upon New York. He placed Colonel Edna
Kennelworth in charge of the "Demon of Death" while

360
he went to get a few hours' sleep. While he was sleeping, the "Tel-Talk" machine and the secret radio communicator began to work. Colonel Edna Kennelworth
listened in and soon had the plans of the enemy. She
knew that Supreme Commander Gordon needed rest and
she did not awaken him until early next morning.
When he entered the headquarters on top of the Mammouth Building, she saluted him and said, "Supreme
Commander Gordon, this is going to be a great birthday
for you. The enemy is going to attack New York City
with probably 100,000 airplanes and you and I are
alone to defend it. It will be the day of all days for
you." He replied: "I had forgotten all about my birthday. We have been so busy preparing for the final
attacks of the enemy that I have had no time to think
of myself." She reminded him that five years ago he
arrived in New York just after his birthday, then of
the birthday parties that they had had since and that
always something unusual happened around his birthday. "You remember the birthday party we had the
year Walter and I were married. Last year we had too
much trouble to think of your birthday. The enemy
was sweeping up the Mississippi, making complete destruction and taking every city; but there was something
eventful around your birthday. About that time you
discovered how to take electricity from the air and completed the machine for sending an electric discharge
into the water which destroyed the battleships and
hydroplanes of the enemy at Cairo. This was our
greatest victory up to that time, and while the disaster
at Chicago and St. Louis followed, it gave us the first

361
ray of hope. Now, one year later, complete victory is
in sight. I know that you have supreme faith in our
new machines and that our recent successes will be followed by greater successes. This attack upon New York
is going to be the greatest in history because the gain
will be the greatest should the enemy win. Should
they fail their cause is lost, and they will fail." She
saw that Supreme Commander Gordon was very happy
and that there was a note of confidence in his tone.
While she shuddered to think of what might happen if
they should fail, she knew that Supreme Commander
Gordon had great confidence in the "Demon of Death"
and the sleeping gas machine and knew what they would
do, because he alone knew all the secrets of working
these machines.
At 8 o'clock on the evening of June 8th, Supreme
Commander Gordon stood near the "Demon of Death"
watching his different instruments and soon noticed on
the other side of the room the radio interceptor start
to work. He stepped up to it and listened, caught the
orders going from the different enemy headquarters,
giving instructions for the combined attack on New
York City at 10 o'clock that night. He immediately
gave instructions for all the electric lights to be kept
on all night and all buildings to be well lighted to show
his confidence and let the enemy know that he expected
the attack. Colonel Edna Kennelworth was ordered to
instruct all army headquarters to send radio messages
to the enemy that Supreme Commander Gordon had
ordered the City of New York and all buildings lighted
up for the night so that they would not miss the city

362
and that he awaited their coming with pleasure. Asked
them not to overlook the Mammouth Building which
was 110 stories high; that he would he there alone,
waiting for them to destroy the building.
GIGANTIC ATTACK ON NEW YORK CITY
When the news reached the enemy, they knew that in
some way their plans had leaked out, but it was too
late now to make any change and to delay attack might
mean defeat later, so the orders were carried out.
About 10 minutes after 10 o'clock, Supreme Commander Gordon sighted the first airplane of the fleet
approaching 40 or 50 miles up the Hudson River. He
watched them until they got within about 20 miles of
New York City, near Yonkers, then he slowly swung
the "Demon of Death" around on the revolving base
and turned on the rays, at the same time starting the
sleeping gas machine working. He swept the territory
for 50 or 60 miles in every direction, and as the rays
from the "Demon of Death" struck the enemy planes,
their motors leaped into a liquid flame. Supreme Commander Gordon saw that the "Demon of Death" was
doing its work so he pressed a button and Colonel Edna
Kennelworth appeared. He told her to put on powerful glasses and to look at the planes going down. One
by one she saw the motors dissolved by the flame from
the rays of the "Demon of Death" and the planes falling, one by one, to the ground.
A few minutes after the Northern army was wiped
out, the signal came that a great fleet of airplanes was
making its way across Long Island Sound. Supreme

363
Commander Gordon swung the "Demon of Death"
around and watched the approach of the enemy planes
as they came out from the Atlantic Ocean and crossed
Fire Island. He let them get within 30 to 40 miles
as they came up across the Great South Bay, then he
again turned loose the "Demon of Death." Swiftly the
planes went down in flames, ending the attack from the
ocean.
He watched a little while longer and saw across
Staten Island another flock of planes which he knew
was coming from Southern headquarters. He called
Colonel Edna Kennelworth and said: "This time
you may operate 'Spitfire' and destroy the Southern
wing." She was a little nervous at first but knowing
what this great machine could do, she turned it on,
slowly lowered and raised it, moving to the right and
left, until she gauged the distance of the approaching
planes. One by one she saw their motors turn to liquid
fire and sink to the earth. Turning to Supreme Commander Gordon she said, "Look." He focused his
powerful glasses toward the South and saw that the air
was clear. Turning around he said: "Edna, you are
a wonderful woman and I am happy to have you take
this part in saving your country. This is the day of
women and their influence must help to win war forever." "It seems a shame," she replied, "that the lives
of all these brave men from so many nations should
be sacrificed. Among the planes that went down by the
thousands, I could see some were English, German,
Spanish, Austrian, Russian, Japanese, Turkish, and
Arabian planes. Certainly almost the entire world is

364
against us and we are winning. This must mean the
end of the war. While I know that it is God's plan to
teach man a lesson so that he will cease to go to war
any more, it does seem a shame that we should take the
lives of any more of these innocent men who are forced
by selfish rulers of their countries to attack us."
"You are quite right," the Supreme Commander said.
"Your noble husband invented the sleeping gas because
it was my desire to protect my country and win the war
with as little loss of life as possible. From this time
on, no more lives will be sacrificed. We will use the
sleeping gas, put all the attacking aviators to sleep for
seven days and the war will soon be over. I know
that there will be another final attack upon New York
in a few minutes and I am going to allow you the
honor of using the sleeping gas machine and ending
the final attack upon the great City of New York without loss of any life."
About the time that Colonel Kennelworth was transferred from Cincinnati to Boston, General Pearson had
been sent to Cincinnati to operate the Tunnel machine
from there. Immediately before the final attack on
New York City, Supreme Commander Gordon ordered
General Pearson to swing the Tunnel machine to the
East and establish a Tunnel thru the Air between New
York and Cincinnati, informing him that the expected
the final attack upon New York would come over the
mountains of Pennsylvania and that this final attack
would be from the West; that he wanted a Tunnel thru
the Air at least 30 miles wide so that he could protect
the Jersey shores and prevent the attack upon New

365
York City. In a few minutes a test was made and the
Tunnel was ready to receive the invading army of planes
and airships. He knew that New York was now safe
and awaited the final combined attack of the Enemy
planes that would come across from St. Louis and Chicago to meet on the Western side of the Hudson River.
About 12 o'clock he sighted the enemy planes across
the Western coast of Jersey moving in triangle form,
and knew that it was the combined forces with probably
more than 50,000 planes ready for the final attack.
Swiftly they approached, closer and closer. He played
his powerful searchlight upon their glistening wings,
until they were within 15 to 20 miles of New York.
Fearing that they might start dropping bombs on
Newark, Jersey City and the towns on the other side
before attacking New York, he adjusted the Tunnel
thru the Air until it was high enough to reach the enemy
planes flying at the highest altitude; then turned to
Colonel Edna Kennelworth and said: "Turn on the
sleeping gas machine. The Tunnel is ready and as the
aviators go to sleep, the machines will plunge into the
Tunnel thru the Air and remain suspended without the
planes being destroyed or the loss of any lives. This
will be a silent, painless victory, but it will demonstrate
our power to the enemy and the world."
Slowly and carefully, with a trembling hand, she
swung the powerful gas distributing machine into action
and as she saw the planes coming by the thousands begin
slowly to plunge into the Tunnel thru the Air, she
thought of how she had risked her life taking the sleeping gas for seven days to prove its success for the love

366
of her husband, who invented it, and for the love of
her country. She thought of Supreme Commander Gordon naming his great ship "Marie the Angel of Mercy"
and then realized what was in his mind at the time;
that the sleeping gas should be named the "God of
Mercy" because it was winning the war in a humane
way without taking human lives. Her mind went back
to the great destruction of Los Angeles and San Francisco and above all, she remembered the loss of more
than a million lives at the battle of Chicago; how
merciless the enemy had been, sparing not the lives of
women or children. We were now indeed merciful unto
our foes and heaping coals of fire upon their heads and
she believed this would be a great example to the world.
She knew that the enemy had used poisoned gas of all
kinds, poisoning the water and foods in the various
cities and resorted to every means to destroy both life
and property.
As these thoughts were flitting thru her mind, battalion after battalion of planes followed and she was
pouring the sleeping gas into the noses of the aviators
and the planes were diving into the Tunnel. This was
indeed a great victory and she was glad to help accomplish it without the loss of life. The great Tunnel
machines had worked successfully and perfectly. The
sleeping gas had done its silent, painless work and the
army of more than 50,000 planes -- the giant attack
from the West -- rested safely in the Tunnel thru the
Air, not a single one having escaped.
At 12:30 the sky in the West was clear and there was
not an enemy plane in sight in any direction. During

367
the minutes of the final battle Supreme Commander
Gordon had remained as motionless as a statue, standing with his hand upon the levers of the Tunnel
machine, with the powerful searchlights playing upon
the enemy planes, and watching thru his field glasses
the planes as they dived swiftly into the Tunnel thru
the Air after the aviators inhaled the sleeping gas.
When the last plane had landed safely in the Tunnel,
his features relaxed and his face showed a smile of
victory. His first thought was of Marie, his next
thought was of his old friend Walter Kennelworth.
He sent the first message of the victory over his
secret radio to him. "The enemy has attacked New
York from four sides, more than 100,000 strong. The
'Demon of Death' has done its work. The Tunnel
machines have performed a miracle. More than 50,000
aviators are sleeping in our nets. Your great discovery
has made this a painless victory. Edna, your noble
wife, performed the painless herculean task and played
her part in the final stage of the great victory."
On receiving this message Colonel Kennelworth was
overjoyed, knowing that it meant that the end of the
war was near. His reply was brief -- "Congratulations,
Robert Gordon. Love to Edna. I hope that you may
yet have Marie to share with you in the great victory."
Supreme Commander Gordon's next thought was of
General Pearson who had been his friend and had saved
his life after his capture by the Japanese at the battle
of San Francisco. The next informed him of the great
victory. This was the greatest news that General Pearson had ever received in his life. He felt doubly happy

368
because he had had faith in Robert Gordon from the
first and had been the one to offer to turn over his command and authority to Gordon and make him Supreme
Commander. He answered: "Supreme Commander
Gordon, our country made no mistake when they placed
their fate in your hands. My faith in you has been
supreme and I had confidence in you from the first
time I met you. Accept my sincerest gratitude for the
great service that you have rendered our country. You
deserve all the honor and reward that we can give you."
When reports came to headquarters in Washington
that the enemy had attacked New York with more than
100,000 airplanes; that they had all been destroyed or
captured; that New York was safe, and prepared for
further attacks, there was great rejoicing. The President of the United States hurried to the War Office,
ordered the swiftest plane to convey him to New York
City to congratulate Supreme Commander Gordon. He
was given a fast plane which could travel more than
300 miles per hour.
After the last attack and Supreme Commander Gordon had relaxed from the terrific strain, he walked to
his desk and picked up the Bible. Turning to Ezekiel
5: 2, he read: "Thou shalt burn with fire a third part
in the midst of the city, when the days of the siege are
fulfilled; and thou shalt take a third part, and smite
about it with a knife; and a third part thou shalt
scatter in the wind; and I will draw out a sword after
them." He knew that Ezekiel was talking about the
Tunnel thru the Air and the scattering of a third part
of the army in wind and that they were caught while

369
traveling in the Tunnel thru the Air. Then he read
Chapter 17: 3: "Thus saith the Lord God, A great
eagle with great wings, long-winged, full of feathers,
which had divers colours, came unto Lebanon, and took
the highest branch of the cedar." This referred to
Uncle Sam, the great eagle that was winning the war.
The cedar referred to the tall building of 110 stories
where Supreme Commander Gordon now had his headquarters.
He next read Ezekiel 31: 4: "The waters made him
great, the deep set him up on high with her rivers running round about his plants, and sent out her little
rivers unto all the trees of the field." He knew that
this referred to England when she had been the mistress
of the seas, but that Uncle Sam had proved to be the
eagle of the air and would conquer all nations on the
face of the earth.
He read Ezekiel 33: 21: "And it came to pass in the
twelfth year of our captivity, in the tenth month, in the
fifth day of the month, that one had escaped out of
Jerusalem came unto me, saying, The city is smitten."
He interpreted this to mean the City of Chicago where
the enemy gained their last great victory.
Then read Ezekiel 37: 22: "And I will make them
one nation in the land upon the mountains of Israel;
and one king shall be king to them all; and they shall
be no more two nations, neither shall they be divided
into two kingdoms, any more at all." He was sure that
this meant that North and South America were to
unite all nations of the world and that there was to be
one ruler, one king, and he was God.

370
He continued with Ezekiel 39: 11: "And it shall
come to pass in that day, that I will give unto Gog a
place there of graves in Israel, the valley of the passengers on the east of the sea; and it shall stop the noses
of the passengers; and there shall they bury Gog, and
all his multitude; and they shall call it, The Valley of
Hamon-gog." He thought that this referred to the
battle of New York. Where it said "it shall stop the
noses of the passengers," this referred to the sleeping
gas, which had caused the aviators to fall into the
Tunnel thru the Air, and indeed the multitude had been
buried above the valley and meadows of New Jersey.
Again in the 39th Chapter: 9th verse: "Shall go forth
and shall set on fire and burn the weapons, both the
shields and the bucklers, the bows and the arrows, and
the handstaves and the spears, and they shall burn them
with fire seven years." This meant the "Demon of
Death" which had burned up the motors of the attacking airplanes.
He then wondered when the war would end. He
knew that Daniel's 70 weeks indicated the end in 1932,
or about 3 1/2 years from the time that war first broke
out in Europe in 1928. He read Daniel 7: 12: "As
concerning the rest of the beasts, they had their dominion taken away: yet their lives were prolonged for a
season and time." And again the 25th verse: "And
he shall speak great words against the Most High, and
shall wear out the saints of the Most High, and think
to change times and laws; and they shall be given into
his hand, until a time and times and the dividing of
time." He had proved by study and comparing past

371
cycles that a time or a season referred to in the Bible
meant 360 days, 360 years, or 360 degrees, -- a measure
known and used by the astrologers in olden times and
still understood and used by modern astrologers for
measuring time. He knew that half a time meant
180 degrees, 180 days or years, because Ezekiel had said
that the Lord had appointed a day for a year. He
figured that America began with the discovery by Columbus in 1492 and that in October, 1932, would be
440 years since the discovery. The measurement used
thruout the Bible was by scores and man's span of
life was three score years and ten, and that four hundred and forty years equalled twenty-two scores, leaving two scores, or forty years, more for the completion
of the jubilee years. He read Matthew 18: 21 and 22:
"Then came Peter to him, and said, Lord, how oft shall
my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? till
seven times? Jesus saith unto him, I say not unto
thee, Until seven times; but, Until seventy times seven."
Robert figured that seventy times seven meant four
hundred and ninety years from the discovery of America until we would cease fighting, forgive our brothers
and live in peace. He knew that the seventh period
was always a jubilee period, that there was a jubilee
period of seven years at the end of each forty-ninth
year period and that there was a great period of fortynine jubilee years at the end of seven times seventy;
that the sixth period would end in 1933 and that from
1933 to 1982 would be the forty-nine years of the great
jubilee following the end of wars and the United Kingdom of the World.

372
He read Daniel 7: 25: "And he shall speak great
words against the Most High, and shall wear out the
saints of the Most High, and think to change times and
laws: and they shall be given into his hand, until a
time and times and the dividing of time." Then read
Daniel 12: 7: "And I heard the man clothed in linen,
which was upon the waters of the river, when he held
up his right hand and his left hand unto heaven, and
sware by him that liveth for ever, that it shall be for a
time, times, and an half; and when he shall have accomplished to scatter the power of the holy people, all
these things shall be finished." He figured that a time
equalled twenty years or a score, and that a time, times,
equalled four hundred years, and half a time equalled
ten years.
Again, Daniel 12: 11 and 12: "And from the time
that the daily sacrifice shall be taken away, and the
abomination that maketh desolate set up, there shall be
a thousand two hundred and ninety days. Blessed is
he that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand three hundred and five and thirty days." Twelve hundred and
ninety days are to be added to the time the war broke
out in Europe in 1928 and the thirteen hundred and
thirty-five days being forty-five days more, the blessed
jubilee days will follow from the time the war ended
in 1932 until the great celebration and signing of peace
and establishing the brotherhood of man. He read
Daniel 9: 24: "Seventy weeks are determined upon
thy people, and upon thy holy city, to finish the transgression, and to make an end of sins, and to make
reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting

373
righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy,
and to anoint the Most Holy."
This again proved that four hundred and ninety years
from the discovery of America, that there should be an
end of sins, an end of war and of troublesome times.
Ezekiel 4: 5 and 6: "For I have laid upon thee the
years of their iniquity, according to the number of the
days, three hundred and ninety days; so shalt thou bear
the iniquity of the house of Israel. And when thou
hast accomplished them, lie again on thy right side, and
thou shalt bear the iniquity of the house of Judah forty
days: I have appointed thee each day for a year." This
made it plain that a day was to be used in measuring
years and that there were to be forty days or forty years
after peace for a jubilee period in which the sins of the
past were to be atoned for.
Ten years after the armistice in November, 1918,
would bring us to November, 1928, or half a score, and
from November, 1928 to 1932 are indicated the troublesome times for the United States. May, 1928 to July,
1928, are very important and troublesome periods when
the nominations for President of the United States
will arouse the people and start a time of trouble.
Using the time of three score years and ten, and doubling this period, making one hundred and forty years
and adding it to 1776, the Declaration of Independence,
brought us to the election of Wilson in 1916 and the
war followed in 1917. The next score from this period
ends in 1936.
New York City was evacuated by the British on
November 25, 1783. If we add three periods of forty-

374
nine years to this, it will bring us to 1930, the starting
of the war against the United States which ended with
the final attack on New York City in 1932.
New York City was founded in 1614. Adding a
period of six times forty-nine brings us to 1908 and
adding 24 1/2 years or one-half the time of forty-nine
years, brings us to 1932, when the name of the city was
again changed. The last half of the seventh period
of forty-nine years, or from the dividing of time, is
another jubilee period for New York City.
The first English settlement in the United States was
established by Raleigh at Roanoke, Virginia, in 1585.
Adding the seventh forty-nine year period, or 343 years,
brings us to 1928, indicating more troublesome times
to start.
The smaller cycles and seven-year periods mentioned
so often in the Bible, also indicated that twice seven,
or fourteen years from 1914 would bring war again
in 1928, and adding half a period of a cycle of seven,
or forty-two months, would indicate the duration of the
war, as spoken of by Daniel in the dividing of times
and seasons.
Robert figured that after October, 1932, there would
be only three years left to prepare for the great feast of
the jubilee of the maximum period which was to follow
the establishment of universal peace. He was very
happy because he felt that we were now near the end
of the war and these troublesome times.

375
CHAPTER XXXII

ABOUT 4 A.M. the President of the United States 
landed on the Mammouth Building in New 
York and was taken down in the elevator to the 110th
floor to Supreme Commander Gordon's office. He found
Colonel Edna Kennelworth sentinel at the door. She
had met the President before and after saluting him
asked if he wished to see Supreme Commander Gordon.
He replied that he did and she immediately conducted
him to his private office.
The President rushed in and found Supreme Commander Gordon sitting peacefully reading a newspaper.
The President could hardly believe it and asked him for
the facts of the attack upon New York City and if all
enemy planes had been destroyed. Supreme Commander Gordon told the President that it was a fact.
The President asked Supreme Commander Gordon if
there had been any losses to our airplane fleet in destroying the enemy and where our fleet was now located. The Supreme Commander pointed to the "Demon
of Death" and the sleeping gas machines and said:
"There is the fleet which has destroyed and captured
probably 100,000 of the enemy's planes. Mr. President, would you like to go on a little sight-seeing expedition?" The President said that he would. A button was pressed and in a few minutes "Marie the Angel
of Mercy," Robert's big ship, appeared in front of the

376
window. The President told Supreme Commander
Gordon that he had neither seen nor heard of such a ship
before and asked him where it came from. Robert said,
"Mr. President, this ship was built according to the
plan laid down by Ezekiel in the Bible. I worked on
it for years and completed it just before the war broke
out. Its most useful work is yet to be done." Supreme
Commander Gordon then explained fully the working
of the "Demon of Death" to the President.
They stepped upon board "Marie the Angel of Mercy,"
sailed out across Long Island, slowed the plane down,
drifted very low and passed over the thousands of airplanes which had been destroyed.
They sailed over Staten Island and saw the wrecks of
the planes which had been destroyed there. Then swung
up the Hudson River above Yonkers, descended close to
the water and anchored in the air. The President had
never been on an airship that was anchored in the air
and was amazed at Supreme Commander Gordon's marvelous invention. He handed the President a pair of
powerful field glasses and told him to take a look. The
river was almost choked with the wrecks of the airplanes
which had gone down defying the "Demon of Death."
Bodies of aviators wearing the uniforms of the various
nations were floating upon the waters. When the Supreme Commander explained to the President that he
believed that not one of the enemy's planes had escaped,
he marveled at the wonderful invention and the fact
that two men and a lone woman could accomplish such
a feat. Supreme Commander Gordon then said: “Mr.
President, your greatest sight is yet to come."

377
He then started "Marie the Angel of Mercy," sailed
out across the New Jersey hills, slowed down the big
ship and entered the Tunnel thru the Air. There the
greatest sight that human eyes had ever witnessed
greeted the President. They passed slowly thru the
Tunnel where there were thousands and thousands of
planes unharmed suspended in the air with the aviators
all sound asleep. The Supreme Commander then said:
"This work was done by the sleeping gas. As this giant
horde of probably 50,000 planes moving in sections of
hundreds and thousands, one following after another,
tried to attack New York, General Pearson and myself
worked the Tunnel machines and Colonel Edna Kennelworth operated the sleeping gas machine. You can
see the effective work and our mission of mercy. We
have not taken human life and have gained the greatest
victory in the world. These aviators will sleep for
seven days and then awake unharmed. There will be
no ill effects of the sleeping gas. We will of course
remove the airships and aviators to the Wilson, Coolidge, Roosevelt, Lowden, Harding and Washington airfields and when they awake they will be our prisoners
and the enemy's airships will be in our possession."
The President was astounded. He had never dreamed
that man could make such marvelous inventions. Turning to Supreme Commander Gordon and grasping his
hand, he said: "You have been inspired by Almighty
God. You are an instrument in his hands to save this
country according to God's plan." The Supreme Commander replied that he had always felt that way and
had never taken any credit to himself; that since he

378
was about eight years old he had been reading the Bible
and knew from it that this war was inevitable; that he
had spent his time and money to complete these inventions for the day his country would need them.
On the way back, Supreme Commander Gordon told
the President that the Marie the Angel of Mercy could
make a speed of 1000 miles an hour and that he could
easily go round the world in 24 hours. On their return
all was quiet in New York City. No one knew what had
happened that night. The President could not find words
to express his appreciation for this wonderful work. He
asked the Supreme Commander what his future plans
were. Supreme Commander Gordon told the President
to read the Bible, especially Daniel's prophecy and the
book of Ezekiel, and he would know what was yet to
take place. It was agreed that the news of the success
with the "Demon of Death" and the sleeping gas machine was to be kept secret and that the President was
the only one to know of Robert's great invention.
The President returned to Washington on the forenoon of June 9th, feeling much elated over the wonderful victory, proud of his native land and thankful that
the Divine Power had given them the man of the hour
at the right time.
It had been a great birthday for Robert, because his
country had been saved. His years of labor had been
rewarded but yet no news had come of Marie. He
wondered if she were alive and if she had been watching
this terrible war, the greatest of all with its great destruction. When the war was over and the world was
once more at peace, what would happen to him or what

379
would he do? It seemed to him that when the war
was over, his life work would be finished. Without
Marie, there would be nothing left, nothing more to
work for. Supreme Commander Gordon knew that there
would be no more attacks that day, so he ordered Colonel
Edna Kennelworth to get some sleep. He communicated with Colonel Kennelworth in Boston and found
that there had been no further attacks there. The
Colonel reported that he was ready and waiting to put
to sleep more of the enemy as soon as they arrived.
The Allied Enemy headquarters at the different
points in the United States were absolutely without any
news as to what had happened to all the planes and airships that had been sent out to attack New York, but
in this case, they felt that no news was good news. They
were trying in every way with the wireless and radio
to reach the commanders of the different fleets but not
a word was received.
On the afternoon of June 9th, when not a word had
been heard from any of the ships or planes sent out the
night before to destroy New York City, the Allied
Enemy headquarters were in gloom. Hope was giving
way to despair. They feared that the disaster at Detroit and Boston had been repeated. General Nagato
was communicated with and his reply was: "This is a
great disappointment. We had all hoped that New York
could be destroyed or captured and this would mean the
end of the war. It now seems our hopes are blasted.
Some devilish invention by the Americans is being used
to destroy or capture our ships. Their success seems
to be so complete that it is almost unbelievable. Not

380
one report from any man or ship has been heard since
we attacked Boston. Now, if the flower of our army
has been lost in this attack against New York, our
cause seems hopeless. The facts are desperate but we
must face them. Let no further move be made until
we know more about what the Yankees have."
Supreme Commander Gordon had made up his mind
that he would keep everything secret and not let the
enemy know anything, but he dispatched a message by
radio to enemy headquarters reading:
Very much disappointed. Lost a good night's sleep last night
waiting for your army to take New York Citv. When may
we expect the pleasure of a visit from your planes?
This mysterious message was as much a mystery to the
enemy as the letter that Robert found on the street in
Paris was to him. The fleet sent out to attack Boston
had never returned and no word had ever been heard
of them. France had been instructed by Supreme Commander Gordon to cease attacking and await further
instructions. Everything was quiet on the other side
and Germany and England were awaiting reports of the
success of the campaign of the United States before making further attacks on France.
On the morning of June 13th the aviators who had
been put to sleep by the sleeping gas around Boston,
awoke. They were feeling good. They knew that something had put them to sleep suddenly but did not know
that they had slept seven days and nights instead of one
night. Instructions by Supreme Commander Gordon
had been given that no harm should be done any of the
aviators when they awoke. Scouting planes were sent
out by the United States Army to capture the aviators

381
when they awoke or started to drive their planes away,
but a few of the planes were permitted to escape and
return to the headquarters of the enemy. When they
reported that while they were attacking Boston the night
before, they suddenly went to sleep and the planes
dropped to the earth and water, they were informed by
the Commanders that they had been away one week.
This was a great blow to the enemy and they knew
now that the Americans had some kind of a sleeping
gas which was harmless and would put men to sleep
and keep them asleep for 7 days. The enemy had all
kinds of poisonous gases and bombs, but they had never
discovered a gas to put people asleep for a week, then
awake without any ill effects. They now realized what
Supreme Commander Gordon's answer meant, -- that it
was some new discoveries which the United States had
made that caused them to fight on and not accede
to any peace terms. After days of waiting, scouting and trying to secure information as to what
had happened, the attack on New York was left a
mystery. They waited until the 16th day of June,
thinking that if their aviators had been put to sleep
there some of them would return. When none of them
returned by the 21st of the month and no word was
received, they knew that the fleet had been destroyed
or captured and that their army had been greatly weakened, but still they held the Pacific Coast and controlled New Orleans, St. Louis, and Chicago and their
Western lines were unbroken. After holding a conference, they decided to adopt a waiting attitude for a time
and see what the next move of the United States
would be.

382
CHAPTER XXXIII

TIME drifted along until the early part of July 
without any further attack by the enemy, but Su-
preme Commander Gordon believed that they would
make another attack soon before giving up. He was
simply watching and waiting, biding his time. The
United States Army scouting planes reported that the
enemy scouts were going out more frequently each night
and some of them had been seen 50,000 or 60,000 feet
in the air. They thought that they were getting ready
to make another attack and were trying to get a line
on what the United States forces were planning to do.
The Supreme Commander went to Washington to test
out the "Demon of Death" which had been installed in
the Capitol Building and found it in good working
order. A sleeping gas distributing machine and the
Tunnel machine had been set up there and he also tested
them out.
In view of the splendid work done by Colonel Edna
Kennelworth at the time of the attack on New York
City, Supreme Commander Gordon decided to send her
to Washington and put her in charge of the sleeping
gas distributing machine, the "Demon of Death," and
the Tunnel machine. He instructed her that if an
attack came upon Washington, she was not to use the
"Demon of Death" unless the sleeping gas failed or they

383
failed to get the enemy aviators into the Tunnel thru
the Air. He believed that if attack came upon Washington, it would be the last and end the war. Because
his country had ever stood for love and liberty, if its
Capitol was attacked he wanted it to be saved by a
bloodless victory. It would mean much to the United
States in future years if the seat of government could
be protected without taking the life of one of the enemy.
With the Tunnel machine in New York, another one in
Cincinnati and a third machine in Washington, D. C.,
he would be able from New York City to place a Tunnel
thru the Air in every direction around Washington to
capture the invading army of planes. Colonel Edna
Kennelworth said that she thought he was placing on
her shoulders a great responsibility, but that if he had
confidence in her, she would go and do her best. He
told her that she could not fail and that there was nothing to fear; that it would be much easier now to protect
Washington than it was New York from attack. So
Colonel Edna Kennelworth went to Washington. She
arrived there on July 2nd, and did not have long to
wait before seeing action.
BATTLE OF WASHINGTON
The enemy was losing confidence and decided to risk
50,000 planes, the best that they had, on a concerted
attack upon Washington. They figured that if they
could take the Capitol, it would be a telling blow and
help them on to further victory. This was to be a
supreme test and they decided to make the attack in

384
broad daylight because they thought it would be a surprise and there would be more people on the street,
and the attack would have a greater demoralizing effect
on the people thruout the country. July 4th, Independence Day, was the time selected for the attack. The
plan was to send one fleet up the Potomac, have another
fleet come down the Potomac from the North and Northwest and the third wing come across by Baltimore.
Colonel Edna Kennelworth was on duty when the
Tel-Talk buzzed and a scouting plane reported to
her that the enemy were approaching in large numbers
up the Potomac. She had never operated the sleeping
gas machine in daylight before, but knew that it would
work just as effectively. Having seen the attack upon
New York and knowing how swiftly one attack followed the other, she realized that she must work fast. She
adjusted the gas machine toward the enemy approaching down the Potomac and set it for a certain range,
about 75 miles. She looked thru her telescope and saw
the enemy when they were about 50 miles away and
decided to let go the sleeping gas. She swept it quickly
right and left and in the glistening sunshine saw hundreds of planes going down. In fifteen minutes the
entire fleet was safely asleep in the Tunnel thru the
Air. By this time report came that another fleet was
making from Baltimore in a direct line for Washington.
She set the machine again, looked thru her powerful
glass and saw the enemy approachingg. She started discharging the gas, and in twelve minutes the entire fleet
had been plunged into the Tunnel.
She had a few minutes to wait and immediately

385
picked up the radiophone and told Supreme Commander
Gordon in New York that the sleeping gas machine
had worked wonderfully and that the Tunnel thru the
Air held in captivity thousands of the enemy's airships
and planes. Almost before she had finished making her
report, the Tel-Talk buzzed. She ran to it and was informed by the scouting planes that the largest fleet of
planes ever seen was approaching from the West and
Northwest. Knowing that this was a combined fleet
from the enemy's Western lines, from the same direction
as the final one that attacked New York City. This
was to be the supreme test. The first formation approached with about 1000 planes. Swiftly and silently,
the gas machine did its work and they went down into
the Tunnel. Then came the second, third, and fourth
formation and so on. More than 50,000 planes had
gone down and not more than one hour's time had
elapsed. When it was over with, Edna realized that she
had not been a human being during this ordeal, that
she had worked just like the machine, forgotten everything but the responsibility for the protection of her
country. When she knew that the Capitol of her beloved country was safe and that more than 50,000 of
the enemy's airships were safely suspended in the Tunnel thru the Air and that the aviators had entered upon
their seven days' sleep, she was supremely happy because not one life was required to save the Capitol. It
was the greatest victory of all history thus far and she
knew what it meant to Supreme Commander Gordon
and how this victory would be hailed with rejoicing all
over the United States. It would relieve the tension

386
which had existed for two years when every hamlet,
town and city had feared every night that they might
be attacked and destroyed by bombs from the enemy's
planes.
The news had been flashed to all the Departments and
Army Headquarters. When the scouting planes reported that more than 50,000 planes had been captured
in this attack and not one of them escaped, the President and Army officers breathed a great sigh of relief
and knew that this meant certain victory for the United
States because the enemy had concentrated their attack
on New York and Washington with their best planes,
and had very few large bombing planes left, and if this
was not the end of the war, it was the beginning of
the end.
The President and his Cabinet rushed to the Capitol
Building to congratulate Colonel Edna Kennelworth.
They found her carefully powdering her nose. By this
time she was calm and collected and prepared for the
unexpected reception, but was overwhelmed with the
suddenness of the arrival of high officials. She had
met the President before when he had come to New York
after the great battle. He was the first to grasp her
hand and, after kissing it, told her of the great debt of
gratitude her country owed her. The President said,
"Your great service demonstrates that woman is the
equal of man and I hope to live to see the day when a
woman will be President of the United States. This
country owes to you and Supreme Commander Gordon
and your good husband, Colonel Kennelworth, its liberty and freedom. There is nothing too good for you.

387
You have performed the greatest act of any woman in
history. I speak for the American people and extend
their heartfelt gratitude. We can never repay you."
Colonel Edna Kennelworth thanked the President,
told him that she had only done her duty and that
she felt any other good woman in the United States
would be glad to do the same under the same conditions.
The President and members of his Cabinet were greatly
impressed with her modesty and expressed their pride
that one so young in years possessed such kill and daring. She told them that this was imperative and that
there was no one else who know how to handle the sleeping gas machine except Supreme Commander Gordon
and Colonel Kennelworth and that she had been placed
there for that purpose and had only done her duty.
Supreme Commander Gordon in New York sent a
simple message congratulating Colonel Edna Kennelworth: "You're a real woman -- a thorobred. I knew
you could do it."
The President and the War Council met and voted
that a message of congratulation and appreciation be
sent to Supreme Commander Gordon telling him that
everything would be left in his hands and to proceed
as he had in the past. The President and other Government officials asked him if he would not give his
consent to permit all of the newspapers in the United
States to publish the details of the attack upon New
York and how it had been successfully defended and to
give details of the great victory at Washington. They
felt that the people had so long been in a state of fear
and anxiety, this would bring great relief and give them

388
a chance to get some peaceful sleep because it would
remove from their minds the fear of their cities and
towns being destroyed; give them confidence that the
United States had proved equal to the occasion; help
the general business situation and bring comfort to
thousands of people who were suffering. Supreme
Commander Gordon replied that there was no question
but that the war was won and that need for secrecy was
no longer necessary.
On the afternoon of July 4th the President of the
United States issued a proclamation to the people, telling them of the wonderful victory in Washington and
assuring them that the country was safe, and set aside
the following three days as holidays to celebrate and
commemorate the victory of Independence Day. In his
message he said that God had blessed the Stars and
Stripes and given to America a lone man who had made
inventions which had saved the country, and that a
lone woman, Edna Kennelworth, with these inventions
had protected Washington from destruction and captured over 50,000 of the enemy's airships without causing the loss of a single soul.
The President's Proclamation was given to the newspapers and every paper in the United States carried
big headlines:
GREAT ATTACK ON NEW YORK AND WASHINGTON
FAILS. MORE THAN ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND
OF THE ENEMY'S AIRSHIPS HAVE BEEN CAPTURED. HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS HAVE BEEN
TAKEN PRISONERS. EDNA KENNELWORTH, A
LONE WOMAN, SAVED WASHINGTON WITH

389
SLEEPING GAS BAGGED OVER FIFTY THOUSAND
AIRPLANES WHICH ARE NOW SAFELY HELD IN
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR MADE BY SUPREME
COMMANDER GORDON’S GREAT INVENTION. IT
IS EXPECTED THAT THE ENEMY WILL MAKE A
PLEA FOR PEACE ANY DAY.

When the President declared a holiday, Supreme
Commander Gordon decided that this was the time to
let the enemy know what our strength was as it was
no longer necessary to keep the secret about our new
wonderful inventions. He ordered the invisible noiseless planes to load up with hundreds of thousands of
newspapers which told of the great victory, sail at great
altitudes over the enemy's lines in the United States and
bombard them with these newspapers. He ordered
Colonel Morrison and Colonel Manson to take charge of
the planes which were to distribute the papers over the
enemy's lines. Ordered them to sail over the City of
Mexico and distribute papers over the enemy's headquarters there. The Supreme Commander felt that this
was the end, in fact he knew it, because after reading
over Ezekiel again he saw that the prophecies were
about all fulfilled and that in a short time the millennium would dawn and the world would be at peace. He
read Chapter 10: 9 and 21:
And the cherubims lifted up their wings and mounted up
from the earth in my sight; when they went out the wheels
were also beside them and everyone stood at the door of the
east gate of the Lord's house; and the glory of the God of
Israel was over them. Everyone had four faces apiece and
everyone four wings; and the likeness of the hands of a man

390
was under their wings. And the glory of the Lord went up
from the midst of the city and stood upon the mountain,
which is on the east side of the city."
He knew that this was the glory referred to for the
United States and that Ezekiel's prophecy, Chapter 14,
21st verse, had been fulfilled. It reads as follows:
For thus saith the Lord God: How much more when I
send my four sore judgments upon Jerusalem, the sword and
the famine and the noisome beast, and the pestilence, to cut
off from it man and beast?
He knew that the noisome beasts were the airplanes, and
that all of these things had happened.
He read again about the 7 days when they should
prepare and purge the Altar and purify it and consecrate themselves. He now knew that the time was coming when the Lord should rule on earth as he had promised and war should be no more. The prophecies of the
Bible had been fulfilled where it said that woman should
be the equal or exalted above man. The Lord had said,
"I will exalt the low and debase the high," and the Bible
said, "The little ones shall become as a thousand."
He was happy to know that everything was working out
just as he had predicted it and happy because his inventions which he had worked on so unselfishly, had
saved his devoted country and made the nations of the
world realize that all power under heaven and earth
was given unto the United States, the land of liberty.
Knowing that the great power was now in his hands
alone, he could proceed to destroy every living thing in
every nation, but his heart was full of love and mercy

391
and only thru mercy and without selfishness could the
United States set an example to the world. He could
retake the Pacific Coast, wipe out the Western lines of
the enemy or put them all to sleep for 7 days and then
make peace on any terms that he might dictate. He
thought of all the rulers of the world, from the tyrant
Nero down to the Kaiser, how each one had sought
world dominion based on selfish greed, and each one
had failed because God would not sanction such rulership. He thought of Marie and as he dreamed of her,
forgot whether he was a man with Caesar or a God with
Alexander. Not once was he tempted to use the great
power within his hands, for he knew that love was kind
and merciful. All the writings of St. Paul had put
stress on love and charity. He decided that women
and children must be protected and that not one of their
lives should be taken in this final conflict. Now that
the end was near, he must demonstrate in a way never
to be forgotten the power that he held over the world
and decided to use the sleeping gas.

392
CHAPTER XXXIX
ROBERT GORDON'S SEVEN DAYS

ON July 20th he had completed all preparations
and had all his armies and all the airships and
planes equipped with the sleeping gas machines. Instructions had been given that they should pass over the
lines from the Gulf of Mexico to the Great Lakes, from
Los Angeles to Seattle, and send forth the sleeping gas
and put to sleep entire enemy armies so that they
would be kept asleep for 7 days. He decided to notify
all of the Commanding Generals of the Allied Enemy
just what he was going to do so that they would realize
and know what power he had, and instructed them to
have all their commanding officers moved to places where
they would not be molested or put to sleep, so that they
might watch and know what was happening. The Allied Enemy were notified that they could make every
attempt to protect themselves but that it would be useless, because they would be unable to see or hear the
approach of the silent, invisible planes.
He called Colonel Walter Kennelworth and Colonel
Edna Kennelworth to his headquarters. Thanked them
for their services to the country; assured them of his
appreciation of their loyalty and devotion and promoted
them to the rank of General. He ordered General
Walter Kennelworth to take charge of headquarters in

393
New York, operate the sleeping gas machine and to use
the "Demon of Death" in case of emergency. However, he felt sure that there would be no more attacks.
General Edna Kennelworth was ordered to Washington
to resume charge in the Capitol Building and operate
the machines for defense if necessary.
In bidding good-bye to his loyal comrades, he told
them that he was going to take Marie the Angel of
Mercy, and was going alone to London, Berlin, Moscow,
Madrid, Tokio and destroy buildings in these cities and
with the light ray put every city in darkness, put the
people to sleep and leave them for 7 days. Then he
would destroy or conquer every important city in the
world in 6 days, just the same as God created the world
in 6 days, and that on the 7th day he would return to
New York City and await the action of the Allied
Nations in regard to peace. He ordered all of the
countries notified by radio that he would leave New
York City on Marie the Angel of Mercy, which could
make 1000 miles an hour, and when he arrived in London and other cities everyone should be out of the buildings which he would destroy with the "Demon of Death";
that this was to be a mission of mercy and that he would
not destroy one life if possible but that he must demonstrate the power that he could destroy all life and buildings if necessary.
The world was astounded and amazed but of course
did not believe that there was any such invention or
any such power in the hands of any one man, or any
one nation. At 7 A.M. on July 21st, Supreme Commander Gordon sailed away in the Marie the Angel

394
of Mercy and in a little over three hours he was over
London. He notified them to clear all the big buildings on Lombard and Downing Streets. They were
unable to see his plane or hear it but they knew that he
was somewhere over London in the air. The people
were frightened and cleared out of the buildings.
Women and children were taken away to safety and
slowly the death ray started to do its work. The big
buildings crumbled away, slowly melting down as tho
they were butter. The people fell upon their knees in
the streets and prayed to God to save them from this
great invisible force. Many people believed that it was
an unseen power from heaven that had come to destroy
the world and that this was the end of the world. When
he had completed the destruction of enough buildings
to show them his power, he circled over London time and
time again, sending forth the sleeping gas and the people
all succumbed and went to sleep. With the power from
his machine he extinguished all the electric lights in the
city and left it in darkness. The news of this terrible
disaster was sent from London to the Allied Enemy
headquarters in the United States.
Supreme Commander Gordon then proceeded on the
following day to Berlin. He intended to teach the
Germans a lesson that they never would forget. He
would show mercy that they had never shown because
not one woman or child would be harmed, but protected.
Not one human life would be taken, but he would make
the destruction of buildings in Berlin so complete that
they would never forget his visit. He would remind
them that the Kaiser and all of the great German armies
were powerless when Marie the Angel of Mercy sent

395
forth its destructive rays and sleeping gas. He sailed
over Berlin and notified everyone to clear out of the
buildings. He destroyed all of the important buildings
on the business streets, turned loose his sleeping gas and
left Berlin in darkness, to sleep for 7 days.
When he had completed the bombardment of the
buildings in Berlin, he sent a message to the President
of France that he would be in Paris within the next
hour to thank him personally for the great aid that
France had given us in the war. The President notified
him that France would declare a holiday and give him a
reception greater than that tendered Captain Lindbergh
when he landed there on May 21st, 1927. He informed
the President that his time was limited, but in appreciation of the friendship of France he would anchor
Marie the Angel of Mercy over Paris and arrange lights
to play upon her to make her visible so the people could
see this wonderful ship.
He left Berlin and was in Paris in a short time.
France had sent thousands of her planes into the air
signaling the "Marie." They could not see her and
Supreme Commander Gordon communicated with them
by radio and anchored near the same spot where Lindbergh had landed over five years before. He was taken
aboard one of France's airplanes and carried to the
President, who greeted him cordially, kneeled and kissed
his cheeks and hands. Thanked him for the inventions
which he had made which would end war for all time.
Supreme Commander Gordon had brought a letter from
the President of the United States thanking France for
her support and assuring them of our loyalty and support forever in the future. He told the President of

396
his plan for a United Kingdom of the World. How he
was going to call all the nations to New York for a
peace conference when the war was over, which he was
assured would be when he returned to New York. The
President assured him that France would be very happy
to be the first nation to join with the United States in
the brotherhood of man to make it a United Kingdom of
the World.
He told the President of France that he had brought
with him on board the "Marie" one of his Tunnel machines which he wanted to place in one of the tallest
buildings, establish a Tunnel thru the Air between
New York and Paris so that their airships could pass
in safety thru the Tunnel to New York, or if any of the
officers in Canada wanted to come home, they could
proceed to New York and travel thru the Tunnel to
Paris. He tested out this machine after it had been
set up, sent one of the planes to New York thru the
Tunnel and the round trip was made in one hour and
thirty minutes. He explained to the President that by
establishing a vacuum, it was possible to drive the machines in safety at a terrific speed. He instructed Louis
Corday, one of the famous aces of the French Aviation
Corps, how to handle the Tunnel machine.
Then Supreme Commander Gordon went to Lisbon
and Madrid, Spain, destroyed their most important
buildings and put the people to sleep for 7 days.
Then proceeded to Rome where he destroyed all the fine
cathedrals, business and government buildings. Before
arriving there he had notified the Pope to get all the
people out of the buildings and instructed him where
to go for safety, telling him he did not wish to give

397
him the sleeping gas but wanted him to be awake to
pray during the 7 days while all the inhabitants
were asleep. Told him that his people must be taught
that God is more powerful than any ruler or potentate
and that the time would come when there must be one
religion, one United Kingdom of the World and one God.
From there he proceeded to the beautiful city of
Vienna and having the people removed from the buildings, turned on the "Demon of Death" and melted the
buildings down. Discharging sleeping gas from his
machine, he said good-bye to Vienna and proceeded to
Moscow.
The poor and uneducated people of Russia had been
warned of his coming. The newspapers told them what
had been happening in other cities, but the people refused to believe that they would not be destroyed. Many
of them rushed to the waters and drowned themselves.
Others went to the forests to hide. Moscow was more
excited than ever before. People had been praying day
and night before he arrived. Finally when he was
over Moscow, he sent a radio message that they should
clear all the important buildings which he was going
to destroy. He descended very low and located the
buildings and when he had been notified that the people
had been moved to safety, turned on the "Demon of
Death." As the buildings leapt into flames and the
people could see them, they were sure that this was the
end of the world and that God was destroying it by
fire, because they were unable to see the source from
which the destruction was coming, the destroying rays
from the machine being invisible and Marie the Angel
of Mercy being invisible. When he had flnished the

398
destruction of the buildings, he turned loose the sleeping
gas, darkened the city and sailed for Constantinople.
He had notified the terrible Turks, who had sent such
destructive airships to help conquer the United States,
that he was going to open the Dardanelles from the air;
and destroy the battleships in the Black Sea. When he
arrived and all buildings were cleared, people were
greatly frightened and some of them were praying to
America's God to save them. Supreme Commander
Gordon assured them that no lives would be taken. He
then proceeded to destroy all their largest buildings,
discharged the death rays into the water and blew up
their ships; left the city in darkness to sleep in peace.
His next stop was at Alexandria and Cairo, Egypt.
He visited the Pyramids, notified the people that they
were placed there according to a divine plan and that
he would not destroy them. He destroyed the main
buildings and blew up the warships, leaving the people
asleep as he had done in other cities.
He notified the people in Bombay, India, that they
had taken sides with England against us and that they
must be shown an example of the power of the Land
of Freedom. He destroyed their temples and large
buildings and put the people asleep. Then went to
Pekin, China, where he destroyed buildings which had
stood for thousands of years; discharged the sleeping
gas and proceeded to Tokio.
The Japs had been the first to declare war upon the
United States and make an attack and they must be
taught a lesson which they would remember so long as
the world stood. He ordered all the men removed from
their battleships and proceeded to discharge the death

399
rays into the water and destroy them. When he began
to destroy the important buildings the people thought
that it was another earthquake because they had not
forgotten how their buildings had crumbled down years
before. He assured them that no lives would be taken,
that they would be allowed to sleep for 7 days in
peace; leaving the city in darkness and the inhabitants
asleep, he proceeded to Melbourne and Sydney, Australia.
Australia had remained neutral and was friendly to
the United States. He carried a letter of thanks from
the President of the United States to the people of
Australia. Thanked them personally and told them
that they were now invited to join the United States
in forming the brotherhood of man in the United
Kingdom.
The City of Mexico was next notified that they would
have the final and greatest demonstration of the power
of Marie the Angel of Mercy. The Mexicans and Spaniards knew that Supreme Commander Gordon was born
in the State of Texas. They remembered the Battle of the
Alamo and Goliad. The poor class of Mexicans refused
to believe after Mexico had joined with Japan and
Spain against the United States, that any Texan would
spare their lives. They had prayed day and night since
they learned that the Supreme Commander of the
United States with Marie the Angel of Mercy was to
visit them. He told them that this machine took its
power from the air and that the rays were powerful
enough to melt down the mountains and that he would
destroy some of the mountains of Mexico and all the
old pyramids. Before he reached the City of Mexico,

400
he anchored over a mountain, turned on the death ray
and the mountain crumbled to dust. The old pyramids
were also destroyed. When he reached the City of
Mexico, he informed them that he had destroyed the
mountains to fulfill the prophecies in the Bible which
said that every mountain should be laid low and every
valley should be exalted. A large part of forces of
the enemy and their officers were located in the City of
Mexico and they were notified to flee to the mountains
and hills where they could watch the destruction of
the buildings. The Supreme Commander of the United
States said that they would not be put to sleep because
he wanted them to watch the silent, sleeping city while
it remained in darkness for 7 days.
When he had completed his destruction of the City
of Mexico, he sent a message by radio to New York
and Washington that he was on his way home and would
pass over the enemy's lines in California and in the
central part of the United States sending them messages all along giving his location and offering to let the
officers take a shot at Marie the Angel of Mercy if they
could see her. He knew that "Marie" could rise to a
height of 60 miles or more if necessary and intended to
fly at a height to which no enemy plane could ever
ascend.
Supreme Commander Gordon sent a message to his
old home town, Texarkana, Texas, that he would anchor
there and give everybody a view of Marie the Angel of
Mercy. When he arrived there he circled over his own
old home out near Red River; then sailed the "Marie"
down Stateline Avenue and anchored her in the air

401
about 100 feet above the street. He turned on the lights
and made his great ship visible, so the people could
see what had accomplished the great victory. It was
the greatest celebration that Texarkana ever had. The
people went wild with joy. His dear old mother was
the happiest woman in the world. She greeted him affectionately; told him that all her dreams about him
had come true.
He could only make a short visit as he had to hurry
on to New York. He notified Montreal, Canada, that
he would arrive there early on the morning of the 7th
day. Montreal prepared for a great celebration. He
arrived there soon after sunrise, anchored the "Marie,"
and delivered a message to the people of Canada, thanking them for their loyalty and aid in our behalf. Invited them to be among the first to join in the peace conference in making the United States of the World.
After bidding them good-bye, he sailed for New York,
arriving just before noon on the 7th day after he had
sailed away on his great trip around the world.
Marie the Angel of Mercy circled over New York
and landed at the Mammouth Building. General Walter Kennelworth was on duty and reported what had
happened during Supreme Commander Gordon's absence, altho he had kept in touch with him by radio all
the time and informed him what was going on. Supreme Commander Gordon's orders had been carried out
the day he left on his 7-day tour of the world and sleeping gas sprayed over all the enemy lines thruout the
United States.

402
CHAPTER XXXV

THE Allied Enemy generals and officers knowing 
what could happen after the losses at New York 
and Washington obeyed the instructions of Supreme
Commander Gordon and moved to a place of safety.
After waiting three days and finding that their armies
were still asleep they gathered near their various headquarters in New Orleans, St. Louis, Chicago, San Francisco and prayed for deliverance. They realized that
the greatest power of the universe was now in the hands
of the United States. Most of them credited this power
to an act of God, and not to man. They had not yet
heard what had happened in all the cities of the world
where the Marie the Angel of Mercy had visited.
Late on the 7th day the Allied Armies of the enemy
began to awake. Each day following for the next 6
days, the people in one city after another of the foreign
countries where he had visited awoke. Supreme Commander Gordon released an electric light control and
the cities were no longer in darkness. All wireless and
radio stations refused to take any messages except what
concerned news in regard to the Marie the Angel of
Mercy and what had happened all over the world.
On the second day after Supreme Commander Gordon's arrival, the War Council of the United States and
the President came to New York City to confer with

403
the Supreme Commander. Reports had come from all
parts of the world about his mission of mercy. Not
one life had been reported lost. To say that he returned in triumph and great victory was to put it mildly.
The President and the War Council decided that it was
now time to permit all newspapers to publish the news
all over the United States and let the people know just
what had been happening during the past 7 days.
Thousands of messages poured in to Supreme Commander Gordon. The world was at the Supreme Commander's feet. He was hailed as the greatest man since
Jesus Christ.
On August 4th, 1932, all of the cities in the world
where Supreme Cormnander Gordon had destroyed
buildings, were heard from. Reports showed that everything was normal and that no lives were lost. Messages
were pouring in from every part of the world to the
Allied Enemy Commanders to make peace with the
United States on any terms and never permit the return
of Marie the Angel of Mercy. The Commanders of
the Allied Enemy armies dispatched messages to the
President at Washington, asking for an armistice and
peace terms on any conditions. The President replied:
Peace terms are out of my hands. When this country was
in dire peril and our cause seemed hopeless and lost, -- when
your demands were to take our country, our name, our honor,
-- at that time we placed our fate in the hands of a lone man
Robert Gordon and made him Supreme Commander of all of
the Armies of the United States. His will is law. You will
have to deal with him, no one else has authority or will be
given authority.

404
The communication was sent to Supreme Commander
Gordon. He called a conference to discuss peace terms.
The President, Cabinet officers and all the Army and
Government officials attended. When the conference
convened, General Pearson arose and said: "When we
turned over the Supreme Command of the Armies of
the United States to you we agreed to abide by your
decision no matter what it might be. Your actions and
the victories that you have won have justified our faith
and confidence in you. You have proven yourself to
be the greatest man in the history of the world. Your
mercy and justice has been demonstrated. Our country and the world and its destiny are safe in the hands
of a man like you. You have been guided by Almighty
God and I make a motion that we say nothing, offer
no advice, but leave everything in your hands. Whatever terms of peace you make, we will gladly abide by
them."
When he had finished talking, Colonel Manson arose
and said: "I second that motion. Let us make the vote
unanimous by all rising." Every man rose immediately.
The President grasped Supreme Commander Gordon's
hand and thanked him for his great service to the
United States and the world. Each Cabinet officer and
army officer followed, and shook the Supreme Commander's hand, wishing him continued success. The
President and Government officials were anxious for
Supreme Commander Gordon to explain how he had
accomplished the wonderful feat of going around the
world in 7 days and destroying so many buildings. He
told them that his new machine made a Tunnel thru

405
the Air and that it had overcome resistance from gravitation and the machine was invisible. He explained
how he had been guided in building this machine and
all his other inventions by the Bible.
Supreme Commander Gordon decided to call a conference of all nations to take place in New York, on
August 30th, 1932. They were notified and representatives were asked to be sent. Supreme Commander Gordon made a special request that the representatives from
all the countries bring with them their wives or daughters as he had a special message for them and wanted
them to take an important part in the Peace Conference. No one knew what the conditions of peace would
be, but even the enemy felt that they were dealing with
the most just man that the world had ever known, a man
who refused to take the lives of women and children.
When he had the power to put the entire Allied Armies
of the Enemy to sleep and destroy them, he refused
to do it. They were all willing and glad to leave their
fate in his hands. All over the country Old Glory was
waving from every building. Flags were printed with
the picture of Supreme Commander Gordon on them
and the picture of "Marie the Angel of Mercy." The
flags bore the inscription "Tunnel thru the Air," "The
Lone Aviator," "America's Savior."
Each day airplanes from all parts of the world began
to bring the officials who were to be at the conference of
all nations. Madison Square Garden had been engaged
for the conference. Several millions of people had applied for admission but only Government officials and
prominent men and women thruout the country were

406
granted tickets. The Government officials of the
United States led by the President and the Supreme
War Council, decided that at the opening of the Peace
Conference, General Walter Kennelworth should be
designated to make the address of welcome to the delegates of all countries and also to make the speech of
thanks for the United States to Supreme Commander
Gordon, for the services he had rendered, knowing that
he was his best friend and he knew him better than
anyone else.

407
CHAPTER XXXVI
PEACE CONFERENCE OF THE WORLD

THE conference convened about 10 A.M. on August
30th. All of the officials were seated by 11 o'clock
and shortly after, Supreme Commander Gordon escorted
by the President of the United States, General Walter
Kennelworth and his wife General Edna Kennelworth,
arrived. The applause lasted for more than one hour.
When it had died down, General Pearson stepped to the
center of the platform, and grasped the Supreme Commander's hand and raised it before the vast throng and
said, "Commanders, rulers, kings and officials of all
nations, this is our lord and master, whose will is law.
Whatever he says, we will abide by. I now introduce to
you, General Walter Kennelworth, who will make the
opening address. The applause again lasted for over
a half hour, then General Walter Kennelworth began
to speak:
"Brothers and Sisters of the world: This is the
greatest council that the world has ever known, for
never before in history has every nation gathered at a
peace conference. We hope and verily believe this is to
be the last war. We expect to be one united people and
follow the law laid down in the Bible, 'Love thy neighbor as thyself.' Then there can be no more wars. It

408
is my purpose at this time to introduce to you a man
who needs no introduction, the prince of peace, a man
of sorrow and acquainted with grief -- the greatest and
most just man since our saviour Jesus Christ was on
earth. We placed our liberty in his hands and he saved
our country and has been merciful to the enemy. Our
gratitude to him can never be repaid. I now commend
you to his care and keeping. Whatever terms he may
make for peace, the United States Government will
ratify and confirm. I now take pleasure in presenting
to you our Supreme Commander Robert Gordon who
will now address you."
Supreme Commander Gordon arose and tried to quiet
the great crowd. Women were on their feet and men
were shouting, "Hail the most just and merciful man
in the world." There was a mad rush to try to get to
the platform to shake his hand. When the noise had
quieted down and order been restored Supreme Commander Gordon raised the Holy Bible and said:
"Brothers and Sisters of the United World:
"The terms laid down in this book are the terms of
peace that I offer you. I am going to offer you peace on
the same terms that Jesus would give you. The United
States has always stood for liberty and as the land of
liberty it must set an example of peace and brotherly
love to the world as it has always done before. This
country has never engaged in a war for personal gain.
In the great World War, we refused to accept any indemnities. We made the fight for a principle, not for
money or territory.

409
"Now the United States will make no demand upon
any nation. There is no longer to be different nations
of the world, but the United Kingdom of the World.
The United States is to dictate peace to the world on the
terms of brotherly love. We will take no territory nor
demand any indemnity. We will retain the gold supply
of the world but will follow the admonition of Jesus
Christ when he said 'Feed my Lambs.' We will lend
a helping hand to any nation that needs it. You are
to return to your homes and loved ones and tell them
that the spirit of God, which is all-powerful and able
to destroy, is ever merciful and just and has spared your
lives and liberty. We refuse to take your money or
territory and in return only ask and demand that you
do unto others as you would have them do unto you
and as we have done unto you.
"Remember that Old Glory has never trailed the dust
and she never will, because the God of the universe did
not create this nation for any or all nations to destroy.
He has placed the great power in the hands of those who
would use it only in defense of right and not for selfish
gain. When I am ready, I can touch a button and
your great airships which are now held captive may
proceed safely home and when you go, may you follow
in the footsteps of Him who created the earth and who
has saved you, and may you give reverence and praise
to Him who is able to destroy not only property, but
both soul and body. When the final articles are drawn
and the territory of the United States is divided and
allotted according to the plan laid down by Ezekiel and
according to science, we will so direct that each of you

410
can live in peace and harmony and according to the law.
"I demand that the terms of peace be signed by
women as well as men. They are more just and merciful
and will rule the country in the future. If women must
continue to be the mothers of our men, they must have
the right to decide whether their sons shall be sent
to war or not. It will take time to arrange the plans
for cities and countries as outlined by Ezekiel and I
expect that the terms will be acceptable and signed by
the good women of every nation.
"It is understood and agreed that the United States
will retain all of the inventions we now have for the
prevention of war and I warn you that if necessity ever
demands it, for the protection of peace of the world, that
a machine can be built which will destroy every living
soul on the earth. It can be directed from New York
City by a lone man without ever leaving here and do
complete destructive work. This is only a warning and
not a threat. You have seen the power demonstrated
by Marie the Angel of Mercy, and mercy shown. You
must respect this divine law and divine power. Remember that this victory is according to God's plan and
God's will. I take no credit to myself and for myself
and my country ask nothing, except that you live with
us in brotherly love."
When Supreme Commander Gordon had finished
speaking, the applause was the greatest ever known, lasting again for more than an hour. When it had died
down, General Walter Kennelworth stepped to the platform and said, "It is next in order for me to make a

411
speech of appreciation to Supreme Commander Gordon
not only for our country, but I have in my hand a
paper which has been signed by the rulers of every
country in the world, asking that I make a speech of
appreciation for them. Before proceeding with this
address, I want to ask every man and woman in this
audience who is willing to accept the terms of peace laid
down by Supreme Commander Gordon to rise to their
feet." In an instant, every man and woman in the
building was on their feet, shouting, "Hail to the Chief,
God bless him and long may he live."
When they were seated again, General Kennelworth
proceeded, and turning to Supreme Commander Gordon
he said:
"Supreme Commander Robert Gordon, Comrade and
Friend: I now have the greatest honor that has ever
been conferred upon any man, -- that of presenting to
you the highest medal that the United States can confer.
This medal is emblematic of your great work and the
duty and loyalty you have shown to your country. It
is made of gold with a triple triangle in the three royal
colors, purple, blue and gold. The words in the center
of the triangle are 'I am God-Love.' Around the triangle are the words, Faith, Hope and Love. All of this
and even more you have lived.
"Words are empty when I attempt to convey to you
the appreciation and gratitude of this country and the
world. I am instructed by the President of the United
States to say to you that anything that the United States
can give is yours without the asking. All the foreign

412
countries now fall at your feet to worship you because
you have proven worthy and have used the great power
placed in your hands wisely. It has been well said that
God never places a responsibility upon a man who will
use it unwisely. God has made no mistake in selecting
you, Robert Gordon, as the prince of peace. The United
States is proud of you, the world honors you and we
offer you our humble gratitude and all the praise that
this world can give you. Name what you want as your
reward and it shall be given to you."
Again the applause lasted for a long time. When
it had died away Supreme Commander Gordon arose
and said, "General Walter Kennelworth, Comrade and
Friend, we have known each other since early youth and
I am deeply touched to have you here to make a speech
of gratitude for my humble efforts in behalf of my
beloved country. You ask me what our country and the
world can give me in return for my achievement.
"I am deeply grateful to you, my brothers and sisters
of the world. I ask no credit for myself but owe it all
to God who guided me thru love and inspired me to give
my best to my country and to bring back with honor
Old Glory's colors which have never trailed the dust,
unstained by blood of innocent women and children.
"Above all the rest, I have kept a woman's trust untarnished and hope to some day see a new light of love
in a woman's eyes. No reward is greater than this and
I must still trust in God and wait. I have been loyal
to her when all others have doubted her. Even when
my country dishonored me, my faith never faltered, and

413
when she disappeared, I hoped and prayed that she
would live and still hope she is alive. I knew she had
faith in me, love for me and the power of that love has
given me the power to destroy the world, but her love
has left charity in my heart and for that love I have
dealt with the enemy with love and mercy. All the
money, power and glory that you can give me are empty
and cannot supply the aching void in my heart for her.
The greatest gift that could be bestowed would be to
return her to me with all the love and confidence that
she had in me on June 5th, 1927.
"In speaking of the inspiration that has been brought
about by my love for her, I want to say that I was always
faithful to my mother and that I have honored and respected her. It was she who taught me loyalty to my
country and it was for her that I remained loyal and
faithful to the cause of my country.
"In closing, I request that one of the terms of peace
shall be that New York City shall be the capital of the
United Kingdom of the World; that the plan of the
future shall be according to Ezekiel. The Bible is replete with references thruout of a rebirth. Jesus said
'Ye must be born again of water and of the spirit.' A
change of name is referred to many times. Jesus said
'I will give him a new name.' The United Kingdom of
the World shall be the new name. Jesus said 'I will
be their God and there shall be no more War.' In
Ezekiel 48: 35, his last prophecy was 'And the name of
that city from that day shall be THE LORD IS
THERE.' New York City, which is to be the capital of
the United Kingdom of the World and which has been

414
known as the most wicked city in the world, is now to
be the capital of the land of love and liberty, because the
victory which united the world was won from there. I
christen it 'THE CITY OF THE LORD.' May you
so live that the world may know by the acts and justice
of this great city that THE LORD IS THERE. I
thank you, one and all."
When Supreme Commander Gordon finished speaking, almost every man and woman in the audience were
in tears. They had never known that such wonderful
things were in the Bible and that all of these very events
were foretold by the greatest prophet, Ezekiel.
The President of the United States stepped to the
platform and suggested that they give a rising vote of
thanks and three cheers for Supreme Commander Robert
Gordon. When the cheering was over, the President said:
"The conference is going to close for the evening and
meet tomorrow when Supreme Commander Gordon will
go over the plans for the future brotherhood of love.
If you will have patience for a few moments, General
Walter Kennelworth will make the closing address, but
in the meantime I want to introduce to you America's
greatest woman, one whom we hope that the good
women of America will select to be the first woman to
rule the United Kingdom of the World; one who made
a supreme sacrifice and rendered her country the greatest aid in time of war. I present to you the wife of
General Walter Kennelworth, and the aide of Supreme
Commander Robert Gordon, the woman who saved the
capitol at Washington -- General Edna Kennelworth."
When the President had finished and the applause had

415
died down, General Edna Kennelworth arose. "Mr.
President, Supreme Commander Gordon, Brothers and
Sisters of the United Kingdom of the World: To me
belongs no honor and I seek no glory. We owe it all
to the genius of our Supreme Commander, Robert
Gordon. I thank our worthy President and all the
nations of the world who have shown their honor and
appreciation to General Walter Kennelworth, my husband, and myself. I am happy to know that the cause
of women has triumphed and that our Supreme Commander has set an example for the world and has shown
what the love of a good woman can do. I thank you."
The women were all on their feet and gave Edna the
greatest applause any woman ever received. It was now
growing late in the evening and General Walter Kennelworth stepped to the platform and said: "Brothers
and Sisters of the United World, I will not detain you
long with this personal address to our Supreme Commander Robert Gordon."
Turning to the Supreme Commander he said: "I will
no longer address you as the Supreme Commander Robert Gordon, but as my friend and comrade. This is
the happiest moment of my life and I now realize that
justice, mercy and truth always will be rewarded. You
have been unselfish and since the day that you wrote
the famous letter that won Marie and the Garden of
Love, you have kept your promise and been unselfish.
Your first thought has been of your country in time of
need. You have been loyal to your mother, true and
faithful to Marie and now I want to read Marie's letter to you written the day she disappeared. I know that

416
you know it by heart because you have read it a thousand times, but I want this conference of men and
women from all the nations of the world to know that
you are a man among men -- that you are one in millions
and that you have set an example for the world and
that example will make better men. The letter reads:
"'DEAREST ROBERT:
"'According to your faith be I unto you. Love will always
have faith, understand and wait. Time proves all things. You
will get everything you want. I will come to you when I
mean the most, and your need for love is the greatest.
MARIE.'
"Your faith has been supreme. Your love has given
you faith and you have tried to understand. More than
five long years have passed and no word has been received from Marie. In your speech today, the thought
uppermost in your mind was for her happiness and
safety. This shows that time does prove all things. It
has proven your love for Marie and your faith and confidence in a woman's promise. Marie was a wise
prophet. She knew better than we knew when she said:
'You will get eveything you want.' Robert Gordon,
that prophecy has been fulfilled. You have accomplished your ambition and received everything that the
world can give. All of your dreams but one have been
realized. You have all the honors, all the gratitude
that a world can give, yet I know that your heart is
aching and after your duty is well done and the peace
of the world is established, you will need Marie and her
love more now than ever.

417
"What Marie Stanton had in her mind the night she
wrote that letter and left the train on the way to St.
Louis, I do not know, but I do know that she has rendered the greatest service of any woman to this country.
Whether she dreamed or realized what she was doing,
makes no difference. Had she proceeded on to St. Louis
and married you, Robert Gordon, the great inspiration
which has made you the greatest inventor of the world
and the prince of peace, would have been lacking. The
great desire for love and your longing for Marie has
stimulated your ambitions, kept hope in your breast and
endowed you with the power to subdue the enemies of
the world and unite the world in the brotherhood of
peace. This has all been brought about by the act of
Marie Stanton. She deserves credit and above all, you
deserve the greatest reward that can be given any man,
and that is the love of a good woman.
"The last line of her letter read, 'I will come to you
when I mean the most and your need for love is the
greatest.' Robert Gordon, that last promise has sustained you thru all of these years. It has been the
anchor that has kept your soul steadfast. You have
trusted and never doubted. You have honored and respected the land that gave you birth. Your love and
faithfulness to Marie Stanton has guided you to success
and victory, because it was an unselfish love. The great
God who gave His only begotten son to save the world
that He loved has not been unmindful of you and your
devotion to His wisdom. You have followed His example of love and mercy. You have kept the faith.
You have preserved the life of your nation and the all

418
wise God in His wisdom and mercy, has preserved for
you the life of Marie Stanton. Robert Gordon, my
friend and comrade, I now take pleasure in presenting
to you Marie Stanton."
Robert Gordon jumped from his seat as if in a daze.
Marie Stanton shouted, "Robert! Robert!" and fell
into his arms. General Walter Kennelworth turned
to the audience and said:
"This is the proof of God's divine plan and the reward for those who obey His law. Love is indeed the
fulfillment of the law. I may not be as great a prophet
as Ezekiel or as our Supreme Commander Robert
Gordon, but I predict that when we meet tomorrow we
will have heard that the first marriage in the new city,
The City of the Lord, capital of the United Kingdom
of the World has taken place between Robert Gordon
and Marie Stanton."
THE END

This E-book is provided
free of charge in the public interest
by:
Gann Study Group
If you would like to obtain free copies of other

W. D. Gann literature,
you are warmly invited
to join the Gann Study Group!


